.\" SCCSID: @(#)acucap.5	2.2	6/4/87
.TH acucap 5 
.SH Name
acucap \- Automatic call unit capabilities file
.SH Description
.NXR "acucap file" "format"
.NXR "modem" "list of autodial types"
.NXR "uucp utility" "acucap file and"
.NXR "tip command" "acucap file and"
The 
.PN acucap
file lists the types of autodial modems 
and describes their attributes. 
.PP
The 
.MS tip 1c
program searches the
.PN acucap 
file when it encounters an 
.PN at
field in the 
.MS remote 5
file description. If the 
.PN at
string matches a name
entry in 
the 
.PN acucap
file, the 
.PN tip
and
.PN uucp
generic dialing routines 
are used to place an outgoing 
call according to the attributes specified for the modem in
the 
.PN acucap
file.
.PP
The 
.MS uucp 1c
program uses the same procedure for deciding how to
activate an autodialer modem, except that 
.PN uucp
searches for
the brand
name field of the 
.PN /usr/lib/uucp/L-devices
file 
in the
.PN acucap
database.
.PP
Each line in the file describes how to
dial a given
type of modem. This description consists of strings, time delays,
and flags that are used 
to control the action of any modem.
Fields are separated by a colon (:).
Entries that end in a backslash character (\e) followed by a newline are
continued on the next line.
.PP
The first entry is the name or names of the modem.  If there is more
than one name for a modem, the names are separated by vertical bars
(|).
.PP
The fields of the description follow the name.  A
field name followed by an equal sign (=) indicates 
that a string value follows.  A field
name followed by a pound sign (#) indicates that a numeric value
follows. A field
name followed by the separating colon (:) represents a Boolean.
.SH Options
.NXR "acucap file" "field definitions"
The fields following the name of the modem define the capabilities
of the modem.  Capabilities are either 
strings (str), numbers (num), or Boolean
flags (bool).  A string capability is specified as
.IR capability = value ;
for example, ``ss=^A^B''.  A numeric capability is specified by
.IR capability # value ;
for example, ``sd#1''.
A Boolean capability is specified by simply listing
the capability.  Strings that are not specified cause nothing to be issued.
.NXR "acucap file" "field definitions"
.TP 10
.B ab (str)
Abort string.  This string is sent to the
modem if 
.MS tip 1c
is aborted.
.TP 10
.B cd (num)
Completion delay.  This number gives the time to wait 
between completion string
characters (in seconds, unless the 
.PN ls
Boolean is specified).
.TP 10
.B cr (bool)
Setting this Boolean causes the program to 
wait in the generic dial routine until the modem senses 
a carrier.
.TP 10
.B co (str)
A modem command string which instructs the modem to change from the 
default speed to the speed specified by the \fBxs\fR field.
.TP 10
.B cs (str)
Completion string.  The modem issues this string after 
receiving and responding to synchronization
and dial strings.
.TP 10
.B da (num)
Dial acknowledge.  This number gives the time 
to wait before looking for a dial
response (in seconds).
.TP 10
.B db (bool)
Debug mode.  Setting this Boolean causes the generic 
dialer to give more information
as it dials.
.TP 10
.B dd (num)
Dial delay.  This number gives the time 
between dial characters (in seconds) unless the
.PN ls
Boolean is specified.
.TP 10
.B di (str)
Dial initialization.  This string is used to start a dialing sequence
(placed just before the number to dial.)
.TP 10
.B dr (str)
Dial response.  The modem sends this string
if a dialing sequence
that was just issued is successful.
.TP 10
.B ds (str)
Disconnect string.  This string is sent to 
the modem when 
.MS tip 1c
is finally disconnected.
.TP 10
.B dt (str)
Dial termination.  This string is used to terminate a dialing
sequence (placed just after the number to dial.)
.TP 10
.B fd (num)
Full delay.  This number is the time 
to wait for a carrier to be detected
(in seconds).  If the call is not completed in this time,
an error is returned.
.TP 10
.B hu (bool)
This Boolean causes the modem to hang up the phone if 
the line goes away.
.TP 10
.B is (num)
This number specifies the speed the modem must be initialized
at.  The conversation speed will later be set as specified by
the \fBxs\fR field.
.TP 10
.B ls (bool)
Use an internal sleep routine
rather than 
.MS sleep 3
for delays.  Thus, all delays are given in microseconds rather
than seconds.
.TP 10
.B os (str) 
Online string.  The modem sends this string after carrier has been
detected.
.TP 10
.B rd (bool)
Causes a 1-second delay after toggling dtr.  This action will only
be taken if the \fBre\fR flag is also set.
.TP 10
.B re (bool)
This Boolean causes the modem to toggle dtr (data terminal ready)
before beginning synchronization. 
It is used to reset the present condition of the modem. 
.TP 10
.B rs (str)
Replacement string.  This string is a single character that will be
substituted for an equal sign
(=) or dash (-) in the number to be dialed.  Used so
that delay characters can be represented uniformly, but
allowing the correct delay character to be passed to
a given modem.
.TP 10
.B sd
(num) Synchronization delay.  This number gives the time 
between synchronization
characters (in seconds unless the 
.PN ls
Boolean is specified.)
.TP 10
.B si (bool)
This modem is attached to an interface that cannot return
any characters until carrier is detected.  Digital's
DMF32 interface acts in this way.
.TP 10
.B sr (str)
Synchronization response.  What the modem sends in response
to a synchronization string.
.TP 10
.B ss (str)
Synchronization string. 
The first string the modem expects to receive; a check to 
see if the modem is operating.
.TP 10
.B xs (num)
Specifies the speed the modem will operate at after initialization at
the default speed per the \fBis\fR field.
.SH Examples
The following example shows an entry for a Digital DF03
modem:
.NXR(e) "acucap file" "entry"
.EX
df03|DF03|dec df03:\e
	:cr:hu:re:di=^A^B:dd#1:os=A:ds=^A:fd#40:
.EE
.SH Files
.TP 15
.PN /etc/acucap 
Shared autodial modem data base
.SH See Also
tip(1c), uucp(1c)
