.\" SCCSID: @(#)aliases.5	8.1	9/11/90
.TH aliases 5
.SH Name
aliases \- aliases file for sendmail
.SH Description
.NXR "aliases file" "format"
.NXAM "sendmail program" "aliases file"
The aliases file is an ASCII file that describes user ID 
aliases that are used in
.PN /usr/lib/sendmail .
It is formatted as a series of lines in the following
form:
.EX
name: name_1, name2, name_3, . . .
.EE
The
.I name
is the name to alias, and the
.I name_n
are the aliases for that name.
Each 
.PN alias
is separated from the next by a new line.  
.PP
Continuation lines begin with white space.
Comment lines begin with a number sign (#).
.PP
You can only assign aliases to local names.  Loops are not allowed
because a message should be sent to a person only once.
.PP
After an alias has been applied, local and valid recipients who have a
.PN \&.forward 
file in their home directory can have messages forwarded to the
list of users defined in that file.
.PP
This is only the raw data file; the actual information pertaining
to aliases is placed into binary format in the files
.PN /etc/aliases.dir
and
.PN /etc/aliases.pag
using the program 
.MS newaliases 1 .
The 
.PN newaliases
command should be executed each time the aliases
file changes.  This command allows the new changes to take effect.
.SH Restrictions
Because of restrictions in
.MS dbm 3x ,
a single alias cannot contain more than approximately 1000 bytes of 
information.  You can specify longer aliases
by chaining; that is, use a dummy name for the last name in
the alias, which creates a continuation alias.
.PP
The 
.PN aliases
database may be distributed in a network by a naming service, 
such as Yellow Pages or BIND/Hesiod.  See the
.I Guide to Yellow Pages
or the chapter on Hesiod in the
.I Guide to BIND
for setup information.
.SH Files
.PN /etc/aliases
.SH See Also
newaliases(1), dbm(3x), sendmail(8)
.br
"SENDMAIL Installation and Operation Guide",
.I ULTRIX Supplementary Documents, 
Vol. III: System Manager
.br
.I Guide to the BIND/Hesiod Service
.br
.I Guide to the Yellow Pages Service
 
