.TH CDA 5
.SH Name
CDA \- Compound Document Architecture
.SH Description
.NXR "CDA (Compound Document Architecture)"
Digital's CDA architecture for compound documents is an open 
architecture that establishes a framework for the interchange of many 
types of data in a multivendor environment.  Utilizing CDA converters, 
compound revisable 
format data can be handled much the same as ASCII text.  With CDA
converters, you can 
write applications that handle compound documents, regardless of the 
environment in which you or application users are working.
.PP
CDA includes the Digital Document Interchange Format (DDIF), the 
Data Object Transport Syntax (DOTS), and the 
Digital Table Interchange Format (DTIF).  Each of these formats 
is encoded using the Digital Data Interchange Syntax (DDIS). 
Using these representations, 
CDA provides a method for manipulating files that contain a number 
of integrated components.
.PP
The tools associated with CDA include the CDA Toolkit (libddif.a),
the CDA Converter (the main converter is 
.MS cdoc 1 ),
and the CDA Viewers.
The CDA Toolkit
is a collection of routines that support the creation of CDA applications.
The CDA Converter converts files
of a specified input format to a specified output format.  The CDA
Viewers are used to display CDA-encoded files on a 
workstation display or character cell terminal.
.PP
All of the following products support CDA-encoded files.  If you only
intend to manipulate CDA files, and do not have an interest in the
particulars of the file format,  you can use any one of these 
products to manipulate a CDA-encoded file:
.sp
.nf
CDA Converters
CDA Viewers (dxvdoc, vdoc)
dxcardfiler          
dxmail
dxpaint              
PrintScreen
.fi
.sp
.SH See Also
cdoc(1), vdoc(1), DDIF(5), DDIS(5), DOTS(5), DTIF(5)
.br
.I Compound Document Architecture Manual
