.\" SCCSID: @(#)dgateway.5	8.2	12/3/90
.TH dgateway 5 "" "" Unsupported
.SH Name
dgateway \- name of the intermediate host (DECnet gateway)
.SH Description
.NXR "dgateway file" "format"
.NXAM "dgate command" "dgateway file"
The
.PN dgateway
file contains the ASCII name of the ULTRIX system serving as
the intermediate host (gateway system) used by
.MS dgate 1c
to connect to the DECnet network.  This gateway system
must be connected to the local system through a local area
(TCP/IP) network and to DECnet systems through the DECnet
network.
.PP
The
.MS dgate 1c
command first looks in your home
directory for a file named .dgateway.
The .dgateway file should contain one
(and only one) system, followed by a new line.
In this case, you must have an account on the gateway system,
as the
.MS dgate 1c
command will log in to this account to do its work there.
Your gateway account must be set up so that a password is
not required in order to gain access to the system.
This is accomplished by means of a .rhosts file in your
home directory on the remote system.
See
.MS rlogin 1c
for more information about the .rhosts file.
.PP
If there is no .dgateway file in your home directory,
the 
.MS dgate 1c
command looks for the file 
.PN /etc/dgateway ,
which has some optional additional fields separated by spaces:
.EX
gateway [ account ] [ path-to-dgated ]
.EE
.PP
In this case, the 
.MS dgate 1c
command logs into
the gateway system running
.PN setuid
\fIguest\fR, while access is made through the \fIaccount\fR specified.
The account specified must allow user \fIguest\fR to
log in to the system without providing a password.
This means that the .rhosts file in the home directory of the \fIaccount\fR
listed must contain an entry of the form ``myhostname guest'',
where "myhostname" is the name of the local system that desires access
to the gateway node.
.PP
The syntax of the 
.PN \&~/.dgateway 
file permits an optional
username. The username on the gateway system must permit you to
log in to that system from your system without using a password. For example:
.PP
home system:  localhost
.br
\  \  
.PN \&~/.dgateway 
contains  "remotehost username"
.PP
gateway system: remotehost
.br
\  \  
.PN \&~username/.rhosts 
contains  "remotehost username" 
.PP
This permits 
.PN dgate 
to work even if the home system does not have
an 
.PN /etc/dgateway 
file, or if the gateway system does
not have a guest account.
.PP
If no account is specified in the 
.PN /etc/dgateway 
file, the default of the \fIguest\fR account is used.
The last optional field specifies the pathname for the 
.MS dgated 8
daemon.
The default is 
.PN /etc/dgated .
.SH Files
.PN /etc/dgateway
.br
.PN \&~/.dgateway
.SH See Also 
dgate(1c), dgated(8), rlogin(1c)
