.\" SCCSID: @(#)elcsd.conf.5	2.1	3/10/87
.TH elcsd.conf 5 
.SH Name 
elcsd.conf \- error logging configuration file 
.SH Description 
.NXR "elcsd.conf file" "format"
.NXR "configuration file (error logger)"
.NXAM "elcsd daemon" "elcsd.conf file"
The 
.PN elcsd.conf 
file contains information used by the 
.PN elcsd 
daemon to configure error logging for the system.  The system manager
maintains this file.  The error logging daemon is dependent on the
current order of the entries in the 
.PN elcsd.conf
file.  Do not change the order. 
.PP
The information in the 
.PN elcsd.conf 
file shows any defaults and describes what you can enter.  A newline
is used to delimit each entry in the file, a null entry consists of a
newline alone, and comments begin with #.
.EX 0
#
#    elcsd - errlog configuration file
#

{           # delimiter DON'T remove or comment out!
1           # status 1-local,2-logrem,4-remlog,5-remlog+priloglocal
            # errlog file size limit num. of blocks
/usr/adm/syserr # errlog dir. path
            # backup errlog dir. path
/           # single user errlog dir. path
/usr/adm/syserr # log remote hosts errlog dir. path
            # remote hostname to log to
}           # delimiter DON'T remove or comment out!
#  hosts to log :S - separate file or :R - remotes file (together)
remote1:S
remote2:S
#remote3:S		# disabled 
remote4:S
   .
   .
   .
.EE
The status line of the 
.PN elcsd.conf 
file describes where you can log error packets, also called error
messages: 
.RS 5
.TP
Logs error packets locally = 
.BR 1, 
the default.
.TP
Logs error packets from a remote system or systems to the local machine =
.BR 2.
.TP
Logs local and remote error packets locally =
.BR 3.
.TP
Logs error packets from the local system to a remote system =
.BR 4. 
.TP
Logs error packets from the local system remotely and logs high
priority messages locally =
.BR 5.
.RE
.PP
The errorlog file size defines the maximum size of an errorlog file.  If
disk space is limited, you can specify the maximum number of blocks
(512 bytes each) you want the
errorlog file to be.  If you do not specify
the maximum number of blocks, the system will notify you when the file
system is 98% full.
.PP
The default errorlog directory path is 
.PN /usr/adm/syserr. 
You can direct
error packets to a different directory; if you do, you must change
the default for 
.PN uerf 
also. For further information, see 
.MS uerf 8 .
.PP
If the error-logging daemon cannot write to the primary errorlog
directory path, it attempts to log to the backup errorlog directory
path automatically. 
.PP
The root directory is the default for the single-user errorlog
directory path.  When the system makes the transition to multiuser
mode, errors logged in single-user mode are transferred to the default
errorlog directory path 
.PN /usr/adm/syserr .
You can direct single-user
error packets to another directory.
.PP
To log error packets from a remote system locally, set up an
errorlog directory path on the local system.  The default is
.PN /usr/adm/syserr.  
.PP
Errorlog packets from remote systems can be logged to separate files
or to one file.
.B S 
sets up a separate errorlog file for each remote
system that logs locally.
.B R 
logs packets from the corresponding remote system
to the file 
syserr.remotes. 
The default is 
.B S.
.SH Restrictions
You must have superuser privileges to change the 
.PN elcsd.conf
file.  However, anyone can view the file.
.SH Files
.TP 15
.PN /usr/adm/elcsdlog
elcsd daemon messages
.SH See Also
elcsd(8), eli(8), uerf(8)
.br
.I Guide to the Error Logger System
