.\" SCCSID: @(#)hosts.5	8.1	9/11/90
.TH hosts 5 
.SH Name
hosts \- host name file
.SH Description
.NXR "hosts file" "format"
.NXR "host name" "DARPA Internet and"
The
.PN hosts
file is an ASCII file that contains information about
the known hosts on the DARPA Internet.
For each host a single line should be present
with the following information:
.PP
Internet address
.br
Official host name
.br
Aliases
.PP
Each
.PN host
name is separated from the next by a new line.
Items are separated by any number of blanks or
tab characters.  A number sign (#) indicates the beginning of
a comment; characters up to the end of the line are
not interpreted by routines that search the file.
This file is normally created from the official host
data base maintained at the Network Information Control
Center (NIC), though local changes may be required
to bring it up to date regarding unofficial aliases
or unknown hosts.
.PP
Host addresses are specified in the conventional
dot (.) notation using the inet_addr routine
from the Internet address manipulation library,
.MS inet 3n .
Host names can contain any printable
character other than a field delimiter, newline,
or comment character.
.PP
The 
.PN hosts
database may be distributed in a network by a naming service,
such as Yellow Pages or BIND/Hesiod.  See the 
.I Guide to the Yellow Pages Service
or the 
.I Guide to the BIND/Hesiod Service
for setup information.
.SH Files
.PN /etc/hosts
.SH See Also
gethostent(3n)
.br
.I Guide to the BIND/Hesiod Service
.br
.I Guide to the Yellow Pages Service
 
