.\" SCCSID: @(#)hosts.equiv.5	8.1	9/11/90
.TH hosts.equiv 5
.SH Name
hosts.equiv \- list of trusted hosts
.SH Description
.NXR "hosts.equiv file"
.NXR "host" "listing trusted"
The 
.PN hosts.equiv
file resides in the 
.PN /etc
directory and contains a list of trusted hosts.
When an 
.MS rlogin 1c
or
.MS rsh 1c
request from a host listed in the 
.PN hosts.equiv
file is made, 
and the initiator of the request has an entry in 
.PN /etc/passwd ,
further validity checking is not required.
Thus,
.PN rlogin
does not prompt for a password, and
.PN rsh
completes successfully.
When a remote user is in the local 
.PN hosts.equiv
file, that user is defined as equivalenced to a local user
with the same user ID.
.PP
The format of
.PN hosts.equiv
is a list of names, as in:
.nf
.I host1
.I \-host2
.I +@group1
.I -@group2
.fi
.PP
A line consisting of a host name 
means that anyone logging in from that host is trusted.
A line consisting of a host name preceded by \fB\-\fP
means that anyone logging in from that host is not trusted.
A line consisting of a single \fB+\fR means that all hosts are trusted.  
.NT
Placing a line consisting of a single \fB+\fP in your 
.PN hosts.equiv
file poses substantial security risks and is not recommended.
.NE
.PP
The \fB+@\fP and \fB-@\fP syntax are specific to Yellow Pages (YP).
A line consisting of
.I +@group
means that all hosts in that network group (which is 
served by YP) are trusted.
A line consisting of
.I \-@group
means that hosts in that network group (which is served
by YP) are not trusted.  Programs scan the
.PN hosts.equiv
file sequentially and stop when they encounter the appropriate entry 
(either positive for host name and +@ entries,
or negative for \-@ entries).
.PP
The
.PN hosts.equiv
file has the same format as the
.PN .rhosts
file.
When a user
executes
.PN rlogin
or
.PN rsh ,
the 
.PN .rhosts 
file from that user's 
home directory is concatenated onto the 
.PN hosts.equiv
file for permission checking.
The host names listed in the 
.PN /etc/hosts.equiv
and 
.PN \&.rhosts
files may optionally contain the local BIND domain
name.  For more information on BIND, see the 
.I Guide to the BIND/Hesiod Service.
.NXR "hosts.equiv file" "rhost=>\\&.rhosts file and"
If a user is excluded by a minus entry from
.PN hosts.equiv
but included in 
.PN .rhosts ,
that user is considered trusted.
In the special case when the user is root,
only the 
.PN .rhosts 
file is checked.
.PP
It is possible to have two entries on a single line.
Separate the entires with a space.
If the remote host is equivalenced by the first entry,
the user named by the second entry is allowed to specify any name to the
.PN \-l
option (provided that name is in the 
.PN /etc/passwd
file).
For example:
.EX
suez john
.EE
This entry allows John
to log in from suez.  The normal use would be
to put this entry in the 
.PN .rhosts
file in the home directory for
.I bill.
Then, John
can log in as
.I bill
when coming from suez without having to supply a password.
The second entry can be a netgroup.  For example:
.EX
+@group1 +@group2
.EE
This entry allows any user in
.I group2
coming from a host in
.I group1
to log in as anyone.
.SH Files
\f(CW/var/yp/\fIdomain\fP/netgroup
.br
\f(CW/var/yp/\fIdomain\fP/netgroup.byuser
.br
\f(CW/var/yp/\fIdomain\fP/netgroup.byhost\fR
.SH See Also
rlogin(1c), rsh(1c), netgroup(5yp)
.br
.I Guide to the BIND/Hesiod Service
.br
.I Guide to the Yellow Pages Service
