.\" SCCSID: @(#)L.sys.5	8.1	9/11/90
.TH L.sys 5
.SH Name
L.sys \- information needed to connect to a system
.SH Syntax
.B /usr/lib/uucp/L.sys
.SH Description
.NXB "L.sys file" "format"
.NXR "uucp utility" "L.sys file"
.NXR "remote system" "specifying"
The 
.PN uucp
utility uses the
.PN L.sys
file.  The file contains entries for each remote system
that the local system can call and for each remote
system for which the local system accepts calls but
does not call.  More than one line can
be used for a particular remote system.  In this case,
the additional lines represent alternative communication
paths that are tried in sequential order.
.PP
The format of each entry, with each field separated by
blanks or tabs, is:
.PP
.I system-name time device class phone login
.PP
.IP \fIsystem-name\fR
The name of the remote system.
.IP \fItime\fR
A string that indicates the days of the week and the times
of day when the system can be called (for example,
MoTuTh0800-1740).
.IP "" 
The day portion may be a list containing:
.IP "" 
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa
.IP ""
The day may also be Wk for any weekday or Any for any
day.
.IP ""
You can indicate hours in a range (for example, 0800-1230).
If you do not specify a time, calls will be allowed at any
time.
.IP ""
Note that a time range that spans 0000 is permitted.  For
example, 0800-0600 means that all times are allowed except
times between 6 AM and 8 AM. 
.IP ""
Multiple date specifications that are separated by a vertical bar
(|) are allowed.  For example, Any0100-0600|Sa|Su means that
the system can be called any day between 1 AM and y AM or
any time on Saturday and Sunday.
.IP ""
An optional subfield is available to indicate the minimum time,
in minutes, before retrying a failed connection.  A failed
connection attempt is a login failure, as opposed to a dialing
connection failure.  The subfield separator is a comma (,).
For example, Any, 9 means call any time, but wait at least 9
minutes after a failure has occurred.
.IP \fIdevice\fR
Either the ACU or the hard-wired device used for the call.  For the
hard-wired device, use the last part of the special file name
(for example, tty2).
.IP \fIclass\fR
The line speed for the call (for example, 1200).  The exception
is when the BC library routine dialout is available, in which
case this is the dialout class.
.IP \fIphone\fR
The telephone number, made up of an optional alphabetic abbreviation
and a numeric part.  The abbreviation should be one that appears
in the 
.PN L-dialcodes 
file (for example, ct5900, nh6511).  If a numeric number is used,
it should be given in full.  For the hard-wired devices, this field
contains the same string as used for the
.I device
field.
.IP \fIlogin\fR
The login information, given as a series of fields and subfields
in this format:
.EX
\fIexpect1\fR\|[\-\[\fIsendspecial\|\fR]\-\fIexpect2\fR\|] \fIsend\fR ...
.EE
.IP
The 
.I expect1
argument is the string the local system expects to
read when logging in to
the remote system, and the
.I send
argument is the string the local system is to send when the
.I expect
string is received.  If two double quotation marks ("") are specified
instead of the \fIexpect1\fR argument, nothing is expected
from the remote system.
.IP ""
The
.I sendspecial
argument specifies a special character to be sent to the
remote system if the 
.I expect1 
argument is not received.  
If
.I sendspecial
is omitted, and two dashes (--) follow the 
.I expect1 
argument, the local system sends a carriage return
to the remote system.
.IP ""
Other special characters are:
.IP 
EOT		Send an EOT character
.IP
BREAK#	Send # break sequences (default is 3)
.IP
PAUSE#	Pause # seconds (default is 5)
.IP
\\d		Pause 1 second before sending next character
.IP
\\s		Send a blank character
.IP
\\r		Send a carriage return
.IP
\\b		Send a break character
.IP
\\#		Send the character represented by the octal number
.br
		#.  For example, \\05 is CTRL/e.
.IP
P_ZERO	Change parity from even (default) to zero
.IP
P_EVEN	Change parity to even
.IP
P_ODD		Change parity to odd
.IP
P_ONE		Change parity to one parity
.IP
The
.I expect2
argument defines another string expected to be read
after transmission of the 
.I sendspecial
argument to the remote system.  
.SH Examples
.NXR(e) "L.sys file" 
In the following example, the remote system is expected
to send the string ``login:'', to which the local system
replies ``xuucp''.  
.EX 
login: xuucp ssword: smiley
.EE
Then the word ``ssword:'' is expected
from the remote system.  (The first letter of the password
prompt varies from system to system, so it is safer to
look for the ending characters.)  When ``ssword:'' is
received, the local system sends ``smiley''.  If the login is
successful, the conversation between the peer transfer processes
(uucico) begins.  If the login fails, the connection attempt fails.
.PP
In the following example, ``login:'' is expected.  
.EX 
login:--login xuucp ssword: smiley
.EE
If it is received, ``xuucp'' is sent to the remote system.  If \*Qlogin:\*U
is not received, a carriage return is sent to the remote system,
and ``login:'' is expected.  If it is received, \*Qxuucp\*U is sent to
the remote system.  The example then proceeds the same as the
previous example.
.PP
In the following example, ``login:'' is expected.  
.EX 
login:-BREAK1-login: xuucp ssword: smiley
.EE
If it is not
received, one break sequence is sent to change the baud
rate of the remote process.  Then, ``login:'' is again expected,
and the example proceeds the same as the previous examples.
.SH See Also
L-dialcodes(5)
.br
.I "Guide to the uucp Utility"
.NXE "L.sys file" "format"
