.ds MA MH
.TH mtstailor 5mh
.SH Name
mtstailor \- system customization for MH message system
.SH Description
.NXR "mtstailor file"
.NXR "MH system" "system customization file"
The file 
.PN /usr/lib/mh/mtstailor 
defines run-time options for those MH
programs which interact (in some form) with the message transport system.
At present, these (user) programs are:
.PN ap ,
.PN conflict , 
.PN inc ,
.PN msgchk ,
.PN msh ,
.PN post ,
.PN rcvdist ,
and 
.PN rcvpack .
.PP
The options available along with default values and a description of their
meanings are listed below:
.\"
.TP 10
.PN localname: 
The host name that \*(MA considers local.
If not set, depending on the version of ULTRIX you are running,
\*(MA will query the system for this value
(for example: \f(CW<whoami.h>, gethostname\fR).
This has no equivalent in the MH configuration file.
.\"
.TP 10
.PN systemname:
The name of the local host in the UUCP \*(lqdomain\*(rq.
If not set, depending on the version of ULTRIX you are running,
\*(MA will query the system for this value.
This has no equivalent in the MH configuration file.
.\"
.TP
.PN servers:
A host or list of hosts running 
.PN sendmail
can be specified.
When an MH program is run, it uses this entry to search for a central 
.PN sendmail
to connect to.
This is particularly useful for workstation users who may not have 
.PN sendmail
running on their workstation.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" *****************************************************
.\" pophost stuff commented out - not supported for X.400
.\" *****************************************************
.\"
.\" .TP
.\" pophost:
.\" The host on which you have a remote maildrop set up.
.\" Mail can be delivered to a remote host and collected
.\" using the 
.\" .PN inc\ \-source\ pop
.\" command.
.\"
.\" ********************************************************************
.\"
.\" ***COMMENTED OUT
.ig
.TP
.PN x400host:
The name of the host where X.400 mail is delivered.
The user's mail is delivered to this host and 
collected by the user agent via a network connection.
This enables users to receive X.400 mail without having
to run an X.400 MTA on their workstation.
..
.\" ***END OF COMMENTS
.\"
.\"
.TP
.PN "mmdfldir: \f(CW/usr/spool/mail"
The directory where maildrops are kept.
If this is empty, the user's home directory is used.
This overrides the \f(CWmail\fR field in the MH configuration file.
.\"
.TP
.PN mmdflfil: 
The name of the maildrop file in the directory where maildrops are kept.
If this is empty, the user's login name is used.
This overrides the \f(CWmail\fR field in the MH configuration file.
.\"
.TP
.PN "mmdelim1: \e001\e001\e001\e001\en"
The beginning-of-message delimiter for maildrops.
.\"
.TP
.PN "mmdelim2: \e001\e001\e001\e001\en"
The end-of-message delimiter for maildrops.
.\"
.TP
.PN mmailid: 0
If non-zero, then support for MMailids in 
.PN /etc/passwd
is enabled.
Basically, the 
.PN pw_gecos 
field in the password file is of the form
.EX
My Full Name <mailid>
.EE
The \*(MA internal routines that deal with user and full names will return
\f(CWmailid\fR and \f(CWMy Full Name\fR respectively.
.\"
.TP
.PN "lockstyle: 0"
The locking discipline to perform.
A value of \f(CW0\fR means to use 
.PN flock
if available, standard 
.PN BellMail
locking otherwise.
A value of \f(CW1\fR means to use 
.PN BellMail
locking always (the name of the lock is based on the file name).
A value of \f(CW2\fR means to use
.PN MMDF
locking always (the name of the lock is based on device/inode pairs).
.\"
.TP
.PN lockldir:
The name of the directory for making locks.
If your system does not have the 
.PN flock
syscall, then this directory is used when creating locks.
If the value is empty, then the directory of the file to be locked is used.
.\"
.TP
.PN "sendmail: \f(CW/usr/lib/sendmail"
The pathname to the 
.PN sendmail
program.
.\"
.TP
.PN "maildelivery: \f(CW/usr/lib/mh/maildelivery"
The name of the system-wide default
.PN \&.maildelivery
file.
See 
.MS slocal 1mh 
for the details.
.\"
.TP
.PN "everyone: 200"
The highest user-id which should NOT receive mail addressed to
everyone.
.\"
.TP
.PN "noshell: path"
If set, then each user-id greater than \f(CWeveryone\fR 
that has a login shell equivalent to the given value 
(for example, 
.PN /bin/csh )
indicates that mail for \f(CWeveryone\fR should not be sent to them.
This is useful for handling admin, dummy, and guest logins.
.\"
.PP
A few words on locking:
MH has a flexible locking system for making locks on files.
There are two 
.PN mtstailor
variables you should be aware of:
\f(CWlockstyle\fR and \f(CWlockldir\fR.
The first controls the method of locking:
the second says where lock files should be created.
.PP
The \f(CWlockstyle\fR variable can take on three values: 
\f(CW0\fR, \f(CW1\fR, \f(CW2\fR.
A value of \f(CW0\fR means use the 
.PN flock 
syscall if you are running on 4.2BSD,
otherwise use a locking style of \f(CW1\fR.
A value of \f(CW1\fR or \f(CW2\fR specifies that a file 
should be created whose existence means \f(CWlocked\fR 
and whose non-existence means \f(CWunlocked\fR.
A value of \f(CW1\fR specified that the lockname is constructed
by appending 
.PN \&.lock
to the name of the file being locked.
.PP
A value of \f(CW2\fR says to construct the lockname 
by looking at the device and inode numbers of the file being locked.
If the \f(CWlockldir\fR variable is not specified,
lock files will be created in the directory 
where the file being locked resides.
Otherwise, lock files will be created in the directory 
specified by \f(CWlockldir\fR.
Prior to installing MH, you should see how locking is done at your site,
and set the appropriate values.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Files
.TP 10
.PN /usr/lib/mh/mtstailor
System customization file.
.\"
.TP 10
.PN /etc/passwd
System password file.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH See Also 
flock(2), mh_profile(5mh)
