.TH patterns 5int
.SH Name
patterns \- patterns for use with internationalization tools
.SH Syntax
See the Description section.
.SH Description
.NXR "patterns" "files"
The patterns file contains the patterns that must be matched for 
the internationalization tools
.PN extract ,
.PN strextract ,
and
.PN strmerge .
.PP
The pattern file in the following example is the default patterns file located
in 
.PN /usr/lib/intln/patterns .
.PP
.EX
# This is the header to insert at the beginning of the first new 
# source file

$SRCHEAD1							\fB(1)\fP
\\#include <nl_types.h>
nl_catd _m_catd;
\\

# The header to insert at the beginning of the rest of the new 
# source files

$SRCHEAD2							\fB(2)\fP
\\#include <nl_types.h>
extern nl_catd _m_catd;
\\

# This is the header to insert at the beginning of the message 
# catalogues

$CATHEAD							\fB(3)\fP
\\$ /*
\\$  * X/OPEN message catalogue
\\$  */
\\
\\$quote "

# This is how patterns that are matched will get rewritten.

$REWRITE							\fB(4)\fP
catgets(_m_catd, %s, %n, %t)

# Following is a list of the sort of strings we are looking for.
# The regular expression syntax is based on regex(3).

$MATCH								\fB(5)\fP

# Match on strings containing an escaped "
"[^\\\\]*\\\\"[^"]*"

# Match on general strings
"[^"]*"

# Now reject some special C constructs.

$REJECT							\fB(6)\fP
# the empty string
""0

# string with just one format descriptor
"%."
"%.\\."

# string with just line control in
"\\\\."

# string with just line control and one format descriptor in
"%.\\\\."
"\\\\.%."

# ignore cpp include lines
\\#[  ]*include[  ]*".*"
\\#[  ]*ident[  ]*".*"

# reject some common C functions and expressions with quoted 
# strings
[sS][cC][cC][sS][iI][dD]\\[\\][  ]*=[  ]*".*"
open[  ]*([^,]*,[^)]*)
creat[  ]*([^,]*,[^)]*)
access[  ]*([^,]*,[^)]*)
chdir[  ]*([^,]*,[^)]*)
chmod[  ]*([^,]*,[^)]*)
chown[  ]*([^,]*,[^)]*)

# Reject any strings in single line comments
/\\*.*\\*/

# Print a warning for initialised strings.

$ERROR initialised strings cannot be replaced		\fB(7)\fP
char[^=]*=[  ]*"[^"]*"
char[^=]*=[  ]*"[^\\\\]*\\\\"[^"]*"
char[ ]*\\**[A-Za-z][A-Za-z0-9]*\\[[^\\]*\\][ ]*=[  {]*"[^"]*"
char[ ]*\\**[A-Za-z][A-Za-z0-9]*\\[[^\\]*\\][ ]*=[  {]*"[^\\\\]*\\\\"[^"\]*"
.EE
.PP 
The default patterns file is divided into the following sections:
.IP (1) 5
In the $SRCHEAD1 section, the 
.PN strmerge 
and
.PN extract 
commands place text in this section at the beginning of the first new
source program, which is prefixed by 
.PN nl_ .
These commands define the native language file descriptors that point to the 
message catalog.   
.IP (2) 5
In the $SRCHEAD2 section, the 
.PN strmerge
and 
.PN extract
commands place text in this section at the beginning of the second and 
remaining source programs. These commands also define the native language file
descriptors that point to the message catalog. $SRCHEAD2 contains the 
external declaration of the nl file descriptor. 
.IP (3) 5
In the $CATHEAD section, the  
.PN strmerge
and 
.PN extract
commands place text in this section at the beginning of the message
catalog. 
.IP (4) 5
In the $REWRITE section, you specify how the
.PN strmerge 
and 
.PN extract
commands should replace the extracted strings in the new source program. You 
can supply three options to the 
.PN catgets 
command:
.RS
.IP %s 5
This option increments the set number for each source. This option applies 
only if you are using the
.PN strmerge
command.
For more information on set numbers, see the 
.MS catgets 3int
reference page.
.IP %n 5
This option increments the message number for each string extracted. This 
option applies if you are using either the
.PN strmerge
or
.PN extract 
commands.
.IP %t 5
This option expands the text from the string extracted. The string can be a 
error message or the default string extracted and printed by the 
.PN catgets 
command. For example, if you want an error message to appear when 
.PN catgets 
is unable to retrieve the message from the message catalog, you would include 
the following line:
.EX
catgets(_m_catd, %s, %n, "BAD STRING")
.EE
.IP
When 
.PN catgets
fails, it returns the message BAD STRING.  
.RE
.IP (5) 5
In the $MATCH section, you specify the patterns in the form of a regular
expression that you want the 
.PN strextract ,
.PN strmerge , 
and
.PN extract 
commands to find and match.  The regular expression follows the same syntax
rules as defined in 
.MS regex 3
reference page. 
.IP (6) 5
In the $REJECT section, you specify the matched strings that you do 
not want the 
.PN strmerge
and 
.PN extract
commands to replace in your source program.  The regular expression follows 
the same syntax rules as defined in 
.MS regex 3
reference page. 
.IP (7) 5
In the $ERROR section, the 
.PN strextract ,
.PN strmerge , 
and
.PN extract 
commands look for bad matches and notify you with a warning
message. The regular expression follows the same syntax rules as defined in the
.MS regex 3
reference page. 
.SH See Also
intro(3int), extract(1int), strextract(1int), strmerge(1int), trans(1int), 
regex(3)
.br
.I Guide to Developing International Software
