.\" V4.0 source updated for V4.Titanium.
.\"
.\" Updated on 26.10.90 by Karen Campbell, OSCR-Europe
.\"
.\" Submitted for FT 9-Nov-90.
.\"
.\" Print this document on a PostScript printer using the command line
.\"	tbl filename | ditroff \-Tps \-man | devps | lpr
.\"
.\"
.TH printcap 5
.SH Name
printcap \- printer capability data base
.SH Syntax
.B /etc/printcap
.SH Description
.NXR "printcap file" "format"
.NXR "printer" "adding"
.NXR "printer" "deleting"
The
.PN printcap
file describes the printers available on a system.
There is one entry in the file for each printer, and the entry describes
the printer capabilities.
A change to the
.PN printcap
file immediately affects the spooling system, unless the affected queue is
active.
In this case, the spooling queue should be stopped and restarted.
For more information, refer to
.MS lpc 8 . 
.PP
Entries in the
.PN printcap
file comprise a number of fields separated by colons (:).
The first entry for each printer gives the names that are known for the
printer.
The names are separated by the pipe character (|).
The first name is the name of the printer that is displayed when
you use the
.PN lpc
command to show the status of a queue.
Second and subsequent names are alternative names for the
printer.
You can use the last name to fully identify the printer, including blanks
for readability if necessary.
.PP
The 
.PN /etc/printcap
file is created when the system is installed.
After this, you can modify the
.PN printcap
file by using the
.PN lprsetup
script or a suitable editor.
The
.PN lprsetup
script is described on the
.MS lprsetup 8
reference page and in the 
\fIGuide to System Environment Setup\fP.
.PP
When a file is printed using the
.PN lpr
command, the file can be sent to a named printer.
If a printer is not named, and a print name is not defined by the PRINTER
environment variable, the file is sent to the printer with the name ``lp''
in the
.PN printcap
file.
The
.PN printcap
file should always have a printer with the name ``lp''.
.SH Examples
The following examples show the format of entries created using the
.PN lprsetup
script.
.PP
A typical entry for a printer in the
.PN printcap
file would be:
.EX
lp|lp0|nlp|ln03 in room 4:\\
	:af=/usr/adm/lpacct:\\
	:br#4800:\\
	:fc#0177777:\\
	:fs#03:\\
	:if=/usr/lib/lpdfilters/ln03of:\\
	:lf=/usr/adm/lperr:\\
	:lp=/dev/tty00:\\
	:mx#0:\\
	:of=/usr/lib/lpdfilters/ln03of:\\
	:pl#66:\\
	:pw#80:\\
	:sd=/usr/spool/lpd:\\
	:xc#0177777:\\
	:xs#044000:
.EE
A typical entry for a PrintServer in the
.PN printcap
file would be:
.EX
lp0|lp|0:
     :ct=network:\\
     :lf=/usr/adm/lpd-errs/ex1:\\
     :of=lpscomm dotty %U %H %J:\\ 
     :ps=LPS:\\
     :sd=/usr/spool/lpd/ex1:\\
     :uv=4.0:\\
     :Da=ascii:\\
     :Dl=/usr/lib/lpdfilters/lps_v3.a:\\
     :Sd=a:\\
.EE
For more information, refer to the 
\fIGuide to System Environment Setup\fP.
.SH Capabilities
There are three types of capabilities in the
.PN printcap
file: Boolean, string, and numeric.
String valued capabilities are processed before use.
For more details, refer to
.MS termcap 5 .
The following list contains the names of capabilities that can be used in the
.PN printcap
file:
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB lfHB lfHB
lw lw lw lw.
Name@Type@Default@Description
.sp 4p
af@str@\fInot set\fR@Accounting file name
br@num@\fInot set\fR@Baud rate, set if lp is a tty
 @ @ @(ioctl call)
cf@str@\fInot set\fR@Cifplot data filter
ct@str@dev@Connection type - only valid 
 @ @ @when \fBuv=psv4.0\fR (choices are:
 @ @ @dev, lat, remote, network)
db@num@0@Debugging level (choices are:
 @ @ @0 (none), 1 (normal), 10
 @ @ @(do not execute job, describe
 @ @ @actions to log file))
df@str@\fInot set\fR@Text data filter (DVI format)
du@num@ @Daemon user id      
fc@num@0@If lp is a tty, clear octal
 @ @ @T{
flag values (\c
.MS tty 4
sg_flags)
T}
ff@str@\ef@String to send for a form feed
fo@bool@false@Print a form feed when device
 @ @ @is opened
fs@num@0@If lp is a tty, set octal flag
 @ @ @T{
values (\c
.MS tty 4
sg_flags)
T}
gf@str@\fInot set\fR@Graph data filter (plot(1g)
 @ @ @format)
if@str@\fInot set\fR@Text filter that does
 @ @ @accounting
lf@str@/dev/console@Error logging file name
lo@str@lock@Lock file name
lp@str@/dev/lp@Device name to open for output
mc@num@ @Maximum number of copies allowed
mx@num@1000@Maximum file size (in 1kbyte
 @ @ @blocks), 0 = unlimited
nf@str@\fInot set\fR@Ditroff (device independent
 @ @ @troff) data filter 
of@str@\fInot set\fR@Output filtering program name
op@str@\fInot set\fR@The entry in the ``Name'' field
 @ @ @for LAT port characteristics
os@str@\fInot set\fR@Service name supported on some
 @ @ @terminal servers
pl@num@66@Page length (in lines)
pp@str@/bin/pr@Print filter
ps@str@non_PS@Printer type (choices are:
 @ @ @non_PS, LPS)
pw@num@132@Page width (in characters)
px@num@0@Page width in pixels 
py@num@0@Page length in pixels 
rf@str@\fInot set\fR@Filter for printing Fortran style
 @ @ @text files
rm@str@\fInot set\fR@Machine name for remote printer
rp@str@lp@Remote printer name argument
rs@bool@false@Restrict remote users to those
 @ @ @with local accounts
rw@bool@false@Open the printer device for
 @ @ @reading as well as writing
sb@bool@false@Short banner (one line only)
sc@bool@false@Suppress multiple copies
sd@str@/usr/spool/lpd@Spool directory
sf@bool@false@Suppress form feeds
sh@bool@false@Suppress printing of banner
 @ @ @page header
st@str@status@Status file name
tf@str@\fInot set\fR@Troff data filter (CAT
 @ @ @phototypesetter)
tr@str@\fInot set\fR@Trailer string to print when
 @ @ @queue empties
ts@str@\fInot set\fR@LAT terminal server node name
uv@str@3.0@ULTRIX version number (choices
 @ @ @are: 3.0, 4.0)
vf@str@\fInot set\fR@Raster image filter
xc@num@0@If lp is a tty, clear local
 @ @ @T{
mode octal values (\c
.MS tty 4
``Local mode'')
T}
xf@str@\fInot set\fR@Transparent mode filter
xs@num@0@If lp is a tty, set local mode
 @ @ @T{
octal values (\c
.MS tty 4
``Local mode'')
T}
.TE
.PP
The \fBct\fR entry specifies the connection type; these are device, LAT, 
remote or network.
To enable PrintServer support you must ensure the
.PN :ct=network:
entry is included in the
.PN printcap
file for the appropriate print queue.
.PP
The \fBuv\fR entry specifies the version number of the ULTRIX operating system. 
This entry allows backward compatibility with earlier versions of the print
system.
Ensure that
.PN :uv=4.0: ,
otherwise the print queue functions as it did in Version 3.1 or
earlier and you will not be able to access the features for PostScript
support.
.PP
The \fBps\fR entry specifies the printer type.
You must ensure the
.PN :ps=LPS:
entry is included in the 
.PN printcap
file for all print queues using PrintServer features.
.PP
The following capabilities set defaults for PostScript printers.
You should refer to the
.MS lpr 1
reference page for the choices available for each capability.
The equivalent
.PN lpr
options are shown for reference purposes.
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB lfHB lfHB lfHB
lw lw lw lw lw.
Name@Type@Default@Description@lpr Option
.sp 4p
Da@str@postscript@Data type@\-D
It@str@\fInot set\fR@Input tray@\-I
Lu@str@\fInot set\fR@Layup definition file@\-L
Ml@str@\fInot set\fR@Record messages@\-M
Nu@num@\fInot set\fR@Number up@\-N
Or@str@portrait@Orientation@\-O
Ot@str@\fInot set\fR@Output tray@\-o
Ps@str@\fInot set\fR@Page size@\-F
Sd@str@a@Default sheet size@
 @ @ @(see below)@
Si@str@\fInot set\fR@Sides@\-K
Ss@str@\fInot set\fR@Sheet size@\-S
Ul@str@<last page>@Upper page limit@\-Z
Xf@str@xlator_call@Translator dispatch@
 @ @ @program@ 
Lf@str@layup@Layup to PostScript@
 @ @ @translator
Dl@str@\fInot set\fR@Name of the device@
.TE
.PP
The \fBSs\fR capability specifies a mandatory sheet size.
The print job fails if this sheet size is not available with the
printer.
.PP
The \fBSd\fR capability specifies a preferred sheet size and is overridden
by the Ss capability and the
.PN lpr\0\-S
command.
For American A size paper (8.5 x 11 inches) ensure the entry is
.PN :Sd=a: .
For European A4 size paper (8.3 x 11.7 inches) ensure the entry is 
.PN :Sd=a4: .
If the sheet size specified by the 
.PN Sd 
capability is not available,
the print job does not fail, but is printed on the default sheet size
for the printer.
.PP
The \fBDl\fR capability specifies the name of the device control module 
library file.
If the PrintServer supporting host is Version 2.0 or 2.1, the \fBDl\fR
entry should be:
.EX
:Dl=/usr/lib/lpdfilters/lps_v2.a:\\
.EE
If the PrintServer supporting host is Version 3.0, the \fBDl\fR entry 
should be:
.EX
:Dl=/usr/lib/lpdfilters/lps_v3.a:\\
.EE
If the \fBDl\fR entry does not match the version of the PrintServer supporting
host software, the job flag page prints, but the job itself may not.
.SH See Also
lpq(1), lpr(1), lprm(1), termcap(5), lpc(8), lpd(8), pac(8)
.br
\fIGuide to System Environment Setup\fP
