.TH resolv.conf 5
.SH Name
resolv.conf \- resolver configuration file 
.SH Description
.NXR "resolver configuration file"
.NXR "file" "resolver configuration"
.PP
The resolver configuration file,
.PN /etc/resolv.conf ,
contains information that the resolver routines read
the first time they are invoked by a process.
The resolver file contains ASCII text and lists the
name-value pairs that provide various types of resolver information.
.PP
The
.PN /etc/resolv.conf
file is required if your system is running BIND.
This file must contain the BIND domain name for the local area 
network.  If your system is a BIND client, this file must also contain 
nameserver entries.
.PP
There are two entry formats for the
.PN /etc/resolv.conf
file:
.IP "\fBdomain\fI binddomain\fR"
This line specifies the default domain to append to 
local host names.
If no domain entries are present,
the domain returned by
.PN gethostname
after the first dot (.) is used.
If the host name does not contain a domain,
the root domain is assumed.
.IP "\fBnameserver\fI address\fR"
In this entry, the address is the IP address,
in dot notation,
of the BIND server that should be queried to resolve host name
and address information.
You should have at least one name server listed.
Two or more name servers reduces the possibility of interrupted
BIND service in the event that one of the servers is down.
You can list up to
.PN NSMAX
(10) name servers.
If more than one server is listed,
the resolver library queries you to try them in the order listed.
If no name server entries are present,
the default is to use the name server on the local machine.
.IP
The algorithm used is to try a name server,
and, if the query times out, to try the next, 
until out of name servers or the query is resolved.
The last step is to repeat trying all the name servers
until a maximum number of retries has been made
or the query has been resolved.
.PP
The name value pair must appear on a single line, and the keyword
.PN domain
or
.PN nameserver
must start each line.
.SH Examples
The following is an example of a 
.PN /etc/resolv.conf
file:
.EX
;
; Data file for a client
;
domain		cities.us
nameserver	128.11.22.33
.EE
Lines beginning with a semicolon (;)
are comment lines.
.SH Files
.PN /etc/resolv.conf
.SH See Also
gethostname(2), resolver(3), named(8)
.br
.I Guide to the BIND Service
