.\" SCCSID: @(#)services.5	8.2	1/7/91
.TH services 5 
.SH Name
services \- service name file
.SH Description
.NXR "services file" "format"
.NXR "Internet File Transfer Protocol" "services"
.NXAM "getservent subroutine" "services file"
The
.PN services
file is an ASCII file that contains information regarding
the known services available in the DARPA Internet.
For each service, a single line should be present
with the following information:
.HP 10
official service name
.br
.ns
.HP 10
port number
.br
.ns
.HP 10
protocol name
.br
.ns
.HP 10
aliases
.PP
Each 
.PN service 
name is separated from the next by a new line.
Items are separated by any number of blanks or
tab characters or both.  The port number and protocol name
are considered a single item;
a backslash (\\) is used to
separate the port and protocol (for example, 512/tcp).
A number sign (#) indicates the beginning of
a comment; characters up to the end of the line are
not interpreted by routines that search the file.
.PP
Service names can contain any printable
character other than a field delimiter, newline,
or comment character.
.PP
The 
.PN services
database may be distributed in a network by a naming service, 
such as Yellow Pages or BIND/Hesiod.  See the
.I Guide to the Yellow Pages Service
or the chapter on Hesiod in the
.I Guide to the BIND/Hesiod Service
for setup information.
.SH Files
.PN /etc/services
.SH See Also
getservent(3n)
.br
.I Guide to the BIND/Hesiod Service
.br
.I Guide to the Yellow Pages Service
 
