.TH sliphosts 5 "" "" Unsupported
.SH Name
sliphosts \- information about Serial Line Internetcol Protocol hosts 
.SH Syntax
.B /etc/sliphosts 
.SH Description
.NXR "Serial Line Internet Protocol" "hosts"
.NXR "hosts" "Serial Line Internet Protocol"  
.NXR "sliphosts"
.PP
The 
.PN /etc/sliphosts
file contains information about Serial Line Internet Protocol hosts.  
Hosts come in numerous types, but all are considered masters
or slaves depending on what is present in this 
.PN sliphosts
file. Master systems initiate the connection as: 
.PP
.RS
.PN /etc/slattach 
.I host
.RE
.PP
where
.I host 
is a destination address. The destination is eventually passed to an
.PN /etc/ifconfig
command. Slave systems use 
.PN /etc/slattach
as their login shell (shell field of
.PN /etc/passwd)
and the login name is matched against the destination field.
The fields describing each connection are:
.PP
.RS 2
.I destination gateway netmask speed 
.I tty modemtype phonenum logininfo
.RE
.PP
.I Destination
is matched against the command line argument (master) or 
against the login name (for a slave connection).
.I Gateway
is usually
the hostname of the system although it may be changed for specific
routing cases.
.I Netmask
depends on your network and is passed to
.PN /etc/ifconfig .
.I Speed
is the speed at which the connection is to be
run. The speed may be
.B any
for slaves and the speed of the line will
not be modified. The
.I tty
is the line to use for this connection.
For master systems this is the outgoing line to use and for slave systems 
.PN /dev/tty
is usually specified.
.I Modemtype
is specified as the type of modem
to use (name must match an entry in 
.PN /etc/acucap
or
.B hw
for hardwired connections - master only).
.I Phonenum
is present 
if modemtype is not
.B hw 
and is the phone number to use (master only).
.I Logininfo
is similar to 
UUCP information 
needed to negotiate the SLIP login at the remote host (master only).
.SH Examples
A sample master destination is as follows:
.EX
slvname mastname mask 19200 /dev/ttyd0 hayes-V 5-5555 ogin: 
Stest ssword: guess 
.EE
A sample slave destination is as follows:
.EX
mastname slvname mask any /dev/tty
.EE
.NT
slvname, mastname, and mask must be found in 
.PN /etc/hosts
or
.PN /etc/networks
as these are passed to
.PN /etc/ifconfig .
.NE
.SH Files
.PN /etc/sliphosts
.br
.PN /etc/ifconfig
.br
/et.PN c/acucap
.br
/etc/h.PN osts
.br
/usr/new/.PN slattach
.SH See Also
L.sys(5), slattach(8)
