.TH snmpd.conf 5n
.SH Name
snmpd.conf \- Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) daemon 
configuration file
.SH Description
The 
.PN /etc/snmpd.conf
file is a configuration file that contains information used by the 
.PN snmpd
daemon to define the static variables whose values are not
available in the kernel.  It is created for you when you
run the
.PN snmpsetup
command, or you can create it manually. 
The system or network manager is usually responsible for 
maintaining it.
.NXR "snmpd configuration file" "defined"
.PP
The following are the 
.PN /etc/snmpd.conf
file variables and their significance:
.PP
.NXR "snmpd configuration file" "parameters"
.PP
.IP "sysDescr \fIID-string\fP" 5
The 
.PN sysDescr 
variable describes the host.
The \fIID-string\fP is the value of the variable 
.PN mgmt.mib.system.sysDescr .
The default 
.PN sysDescr
entry is of the form:
.IP
hostname:machine-type:software id
.IP
For example, the 
.PN sysDescr 
entry for a MicroVAX II named 
.PN host1 
that is running ULTRIX Version 4.0 might read:
.EX 0
sysDescr	host1:MicroVAXII:ULTRIX V4.0 (Rev 64) System #2
.EE
.NXR "snmpd configuration file parameters" "sysDescr"
.NX(e) "snmpd configuration file parameters" "sysDescr"
.IP "interface speed \fIname\fP \fIspeed\fP" 5
The 
.PN "interface speed"
variable describes a value for the Management
Information Base (MIB) variable 
defined as:
.IP
.PN mgmt.mib.interfaces.ifTable.ifEntry.ifSpeed
.IP
The \fIname\fP parameter must
be an ULTRIX interface name, such as sl0.
The following interfaces have default interface speeds and types:
de, qe, ni, ln, se, scs, xna.  If your system has one of these
interfaces, you do not need to specify this parameter.  
.IP
The \fIspeed\fP parameter is a decimal 
number that describes the speed of the
link in bits per second.  If you do not specify the \fIspeed\fP 
parameter,
.PN snmpd 
does not return this variable and marks it as 
unavailable.
.NXR "snmpd configuration file parameters" "interface speed"
.IP "interface type \fIname\fP \fItype\fP" 5
The 
.PN "interface type"
variable describes a value for the MIB variable
in the interface table defined as:
.IP
.PN mgmt.mib.interfaces.ifTable.ifEntry.ifType
.IP
The \fIname\fP 
parameter must be an ULTRIX interface name, such as sl0.
.IP
See the sample 
.PN /etc/snmpd.conf 
file in the Examples section for a complete listing of the
possible \fItype\fP specifications.  If the \fItype\fP parameter is not 
specified, 
.PN snmpd 
marks it as unavailable.
.NXR "snmpd configuration file parameters" "interface type"
.IP "tcpRtoAlgorithm \fIalgorithm-type\fP" 5
The 
.PN tcpRtoAlgorithm 
variable describes a value for the 
MIB variable in the tcp group defined as
.PN mgmt.mib.tcp.tcpRtoAlgorithm.  
This variable defines
the Retransmission Time-Out (RTO) algorithm your 
system uses.
.IP
The \fIalgorithm-type\fP parameter is a
numeric code that represents the type of RTO
algorithm you are using.  
The default algorithm 
is Van Jacobson's, which is algorithm number 4.
See the sample 
.PN snmpd.conf
file in the Examples section for a listing of the other algorithms.
.IP
If you do not specify
this parameter, 
.PN snmpd 
does not return this variable, and marks it as unavailable.
.NXR "snmpd configuration file parameters" "tcpRtoAlgorithm"
.IP "community \fIname\fP \fIIP-address\fP \fItype\fP" 5
The 
.PN community 
variable describes an SNMP community for the agent.
.IP
The \fIname\fP parameter is a string that describes
the name of the community. 
.IP
The \fIIP-address\fP parameter is the dot-notation Internet Protocol (IP)
address for the server.  Only SNMP packets coming from that
address are accepted.  If you specify 0.0.0.0 in the \fIaddress\fP
field, the SNMP agent honors the request from any Network
Management Station (NMS) having the 
\fIname\fP community.
.IP
The \fItype\fP parameter can be one of the following:
.RS
.IP read-only 0
Permits only monitoring of variables.
.IP read-write
Permits both monitoring and setting of variables.
.IP traps 0
Generates traps when appropriate
and sends them to the specified address with the specified
community name.
.IP
The possible traps currently generated are
cold start and authentication failure.
.NXR "traps" "cold start"
.NXR "traps" "authentication failure"
.NXR "snmpd configuration file parameters" "community"
.RE
.IP
If you do not specify any community, 
.PN snmpd 
uses the default community 
.PN public
with an address 0.0.0.0 and a read-only type.
Invalid uses of communities
are logged with the 
.PN syslog
command.  To limit the use of a 
community to a finite group of machines, specify another
community clause with the same community parameter \fIname\fP and a
different address.
.IP "timeout \fIvalue\fP" 5
The 
.PN timeout
variable indicates the timeout value in seconds
between the Agent 
and the Extended Agent.  If the Agent does not receive a
response within the allotted time, it returns an error message to the
NMS.  The default timeout value is 5 seconds.
.NXR "snmpd configuration file parameters" "timeout"
.IP "extension \fIextended-agent\fP \fIp1\fP \fIp2\fP \fIp3\fP \fIp4\fP" 5
The 
.PN extension 
variable lists the pathname of the \fIextended-agent\fP
that the Agent activates.
.IP
Variables \fIp1\fP through \fIp4\fP are passed by the Agent to the
Extended Agent; \fIp1\fP is usually the process name to be given to the
Extended Agent. 
.NXR "snmpd configuration file parameters" "extension"
.SH Examples
The default
.PN snmpd.conf
file contains only the following entry:
.EX
community public 0.0.0.0    read-only
.EE
The following is an example of an extensive
.PN snmpd.conf
file:
.EX 0
#
#    snmpd.conf file
#
sysDescr        host1:MicroVAXII:ULTRIX V4.0 System #2


#
#  Describe the TCP RTO algorithm you are using.  Values
#  are listed in RFC 1066, under the TCP group variable: 
#  tcpRtoAlgorithm
#  They are:
#
#  other    (1)  -- None of the below
#  constant (2)  -- constant RTO
#  rsre     (3)  -- MILSTD 1778, appendix B
#  vanj     (4)  -- Van Jacobson's algorithm
#
tcprtoalgorithm	4

#
#  Describe who can use your SNMP daemon by
#  defining "communities".    USAGE:
#
#  community <name><IP address><type>
#
#  This is a limited-use community; a finite number of 
#  hosts can use it.
#  Can only query from this community.
#
community test1	128.45.10.100 read-only
community test1	128.45.10.101 read-only

#
#  These are our wide-open, general-use communities.  Specifying
#  0.0.0.0 means that any address can use this community only
#  to monitor variables.
#
community public 0.0.0.0 read-only

#
#  This is our only management community.  You can set variables 
#  as well as monitor variables with this community.  It is a 
#  wide-open community as well.
#
community testwrite 0.0.0.0 read-write

#
#  This is a trap community.  We send traps to these addresses 
#  all from the same community name.  Note that a 0.0.0.0 
#  address in a trap session is illegal and snmpd will ignore 
#  that community definition.
#
community trap1	128.45.10.100 traps
community trap1	128.45.10.101 traps

#
#  The interface speed is given in bits/sec.  USAGE:
#
#  interface speed <name> <speed>
#
interface speed sl0 9600

#
#  The <name> parameter for the interface type is the
#  same as the <name> for the interface speed, sl0 for
#  this example.  USAGE:
#
#  interface type <name> <type>
#
#  The code number for the proper interface hardware type 
#  is specified in RFC 1066 under the ifType object
#  definition.
#
#  Some possible values:
#
#  other                   (1)
#  regular1822             (2)
#  hdh1822                 (3)
#  ddn-x25                 (4)
#  rfc877-x25              (5)
#  ethernet-csmacd         (6)
#  iso88023-csmacd         (7)
#  iso88024-tokenBus       (8)
#  iso88025-tokenRing      (9)
#  iso88026-man            (10)
#  starLan                 (11)
#  Proteon-10MBit          (12)
#  Proteon-80MBit          (13)
#  hyperchannel            (14)
#  fddi                    (15)
#  lapb                    (16)
#  sdlc                    (17)
#  t1-carrier              (18)
#  cept                    (19) -- European equivalent of T-1
#  basicIsdn               (20)
#  primaryIsdn             (21)
#  propPointToPointSerial  (22) -- proprietary serial
#                             
interface type  sl0 1

#
# Timer value to time out requests to extended agents.
#
timeout	6

#
# List of extended agents.
#
extension /etc/snmpextd		snmpextd
.EE
.PP
In this example, note the following:
.PP
\(bu  Community 
.PN test1 
can be monitored by either 128.45.10.100 or 128.45.10.101.
.PP
\(bu  Community 
.PN public 
can be monitored by any NMS.
.PP
\(bu  Community 
.PN testwrite 
can be monitored and managed by any NMS.
.PP
\(bu  When a trap is generated, it is sent to community 
.PN trap1 
at 128.45.10.100 or 128.45.10.101.  Destination
addresses must have a mechanism in place to handle the traps.
.SH See Also
.\" These are in alphabetical order by section number. 
.\" For example,
.\" cat(1), kill(1), tty(4), dump(8)
.\"
.\" Code as text as follows:
.\"
snmpext(3n), snmpd(8n), snmpsetup(8n)
.br
RFC 1066\(em\fIManagement Information Base for Network Management of TCP/IP-
based Internets\fR
.br
RFC 1067\(em\fIA Simple Network Management Protocol\fR
.br
.I Guide to Networking
