.TH svc.conf 5
.SH Name
svc.conf - database service selection and security
configuration file
.SH Description
The
.PN svc.conf
.NXR "svc.conf" "file"
.NXR "database service selection" "svc.conf file"
file is a mandatory system file that allows you to select the 
desired services on a per database basis.  It also allows you to
select security parameters.  The default
.PN /etc/svc.conf 
file has
.PN local
as the service selected for each database.  This file must be modified when
adding or removing a naming service, such as Yellow Pages or
BIND/Hesiod.  The valid services are 
.PN local , 
.PN yp , 
and 
.PN bind .
Modifications to the
.PN /etc/svc.conf
file can be made with an
editor or the 
.PN /usr/etc/svcsetup
command for database service selection.  They can be made with the
.PN /usr/etc/secsetup
command for security parameter selection.  Changes take effect immediately.
.NT
The recommended configuration is that you have
.PN local
as the first entry for all databases.
.NE
.SH Restrictions
White space is allowed only after commas or newlines.
.PP
You must have
.PN local
as the first entry for the
.PN passwd
and
.PN hosts
databases.
.PP
You must have
.PN yp
as the entry for the
.PN netgroup
database.
.PP
You must have either
.PN local
or
.PN bind
as the entry for the
.PN auth
database.
.SH Examples
The following is a sample 
.PN /etc/svc.conf
file:
.EX0
aliases=yp
auth=local,bind
group=local,yp
hosts=local,bind,yp
netgroup=yp
networks=bind
passwd=local,bind
protocols=local,bind
rpc=local,bind
services=local

PASSLENMIN=6
PASSLENMAX=16
SOFTEXP=604800         # 7 days in seconds 
SECLEVEL=BSD           # (BSD | UPGRADE | ENHANCED)
.EE
.SH Files
.PN /etc/svc.conf 
.br
.PN /usr/sys/h/svcinfo.h
.SH See Also
getsvc(3), svcsetup(8)
.br
.I Guide to the BIND/Hesiod Service
.br
.I Guide to the Yellow Pages Service
