.\" SCCSID: @(#)USERFILE.5	8.1	9/11/90
.TH USERFILE 5
.SH Name
USERFILE \- defines uucp security
.SH Syntax
.B /usr/lib/uucp/USERFILE
.SH Description
.NXR "USERFILE file" "format"
.NXAM "uucp utility" "USERFILE file"
.NXR "remote system" "specifying access"
The
.PN uucp
utility uses the USERFILE to establish what access a
remote system can have to the local system.  
An entry should exist for each system.  If no entries
exist for a particular system, the default entries
are used.
The entries for particular systems have the following
format:
.PP
.I login-name
,
.I node-name 
.B X
.I # path-name
...
.PP
.IP \fIlogin-name\fR 1i
The name with which the remote system logs in.
.IP \fInode-name\fR
The name of the remote node. 
.IP X\fI#\fR 1i
The execution level for the remote system.  The remote
system can execute commands defined in the 
.MS L.cmds 5
file that have an execution level less than or equal to
the number \fI#\fR.
.IP \fIpath-name\fR 1i
The remote system can access anything at the local system
with this prefix.
.PP
Two entries must also be provided for systems not otherwise
listed:
.IP "" .5i
remote, X\fI# path-name\fR ...
.br
local, X\fI# path-name\fR ...
.PP
These entries define the execution level and access pathnames
for the local system and all remote systems not defined by
specific entries.
.SH Examples
.EX 
remote, X1 /usr/spool/uucppublic
local, X9 /
max,systemY /usr/sources /usr/src/share
max,systemZ X3 /usr
.EE
In the above example, the node named systemY with the
login name max has access to anything with the pathname
prefixes 
.PN /usr/sources 
and 
.PN /usr/src/share.  
The node
named systemZ with the login name max can execute
commands defined in
.MS L.cmds 5
with an execution level of 3 or lower.  It can access
anything with the pathname prefix 
.PN /usr .
.PP
Any other remote systems can execute commands defined
in
.MS L.cmds 5
with an execution level of 1 or 0.  They can access
anything with the pathname prefix of
.PN /usr/spool/uucppublic .
.PP
Users on the local system can execute any of the commands 
defined in 
.PN L.cmd 
and access anything on the system.
.SH See Also
.I "Guide to the uucp Utility"
