.\" SCCSID: @(#)autoconf.4	3.1	11/24/87
.TH autoconf 4 VAX
.SH Name
autoconf \- diagnostics from the autoconfiguration code
.SH Description
.NXR "autoconf keyword"
.NXB "configuration file (syslog)"
When ULTRIX bootstraps, it probes the machine it is running
on and locates controllers, drives, and other devices, printing out
what it finds on the console.  This procedure is driven by a system
configuration table, which is processed by
.MS config 8
and compiled into each kernel.
.PP
Devices in NEXUS slots are normally noted, thus memory controllers,
UNIBUS, MASSBUS, and VAXBI adapters will be seen.  Devices that are not 
supported and that are found in NEXUS slots are noted also.
.PP
VAXBI devices are located by a deterministic procedure,
because VAXBI space can be probed completely.  Existing devices are noted
on the console if they are not configured, or if they are
unsupported devices.
.PP
MASSBUS devices are located by a deterministic procedure, because
MASSBUS space is completely probeable.  If devices exist that
are not configured, they will be silently ignored; if devices exist of
unsupported type they will be noted.
.PP
UNIBUS devices are located by probing to see if their control-status
registers respond.  If not, they are silently ignored.  If the control
status register responds but the device cannot be made to interrupt,
a diagnostic warning will be printed on the console and the device
will not be available to the system. 
.PP
.SH Diagnostics
.NXB "configuration file (syslog)" "diagnostics"
.IP "\fBNo configure routine for cpu type %d\fR" 5
An attempt was made
to boot ULTRIX on a CPU type that it does not (or at least this compiled 
version of ULTRIX does not) understand.
.IP "\fBmba%d at address 0x%x\fR"
A MASSBUS adapter was found at
address 0x%x.  ULTRIX will call it mba%d.
.IP "\fB%d mba's not configured\fR"
More MASSBUS adapters were found on
the machine than were declared in the machine configuration; the excess
MASSBUS adapters will not be accessible.
.IP "\fBuba%d at address 0x%x\fR"
A UNIBUS adapter was found at
address 0x%d.  ULTRIX will call it uba%d.
.IP "\fBdr32 unsupported at address 0x%d\fR"
A DR32 interface was found at 
address 0x%d, for which ULTRIX does not have a driver.
.IP "\fBmcr%d at address 0x%x\fR"
A memory controller was found at
address 0x%d.  ULTRIX will call it mcr%d.
.IP "\fB5 mcr's unsupported at address 0x%d\fR"
ULTRIX supports only four memory controllers per CPU.
.IP "\fBmpm unsupported at address 0x%x\fR"
Multiport memory is 
unsupported in the sense that ULTRIX does not know how to poll it for 
ECC errors.
.IP "\fB%s%d at mba%d drive %d\fR"
A tape formatter or a disk was found
on the MASSBUS; for disks %s%d will look like ``hp0'', 
for tape formatters like ``ht1''.  
The drive number comes from the unit plug on the drive
or in the TM formatter (\fBnot\fR on the tape drive; see below).
.IP "\fB%s%d at %s%d slave %d\fR (for MASSBUS devices)"
A tape slave was found on the tape formatter 
at the indicated drive number (on the front of the tape drive).
ULTRIX will call the device, for example, \fBtu0\fR.
For example, ``tu0 at ht0 slave 0'',
where \fBtu0\fR is the name for the tape device and \fBht0\fR is the 
name for the formatter.  
.IP "\fB%s%d at %s%d slave %d\fR (for UNIBUS and VAXBI devices)"
Which would look like ``ra0 at uq0 slave 0'',
where \fBra0\fR is the name of a disk drive and \fBuq0\fR is the name
of the port protocol.
.IP "\fB%s%d at uba%d csr %o vec %o ipl %x\fR"
The device %s%d, e.g. dz0
was found on uba%d at control-status register address %o and with
device vector %o.  The device interrupted at priority level %x.
.IP "\fB%s%d at uba%d csr %o zero vector\fR"
The device did not present
a valid interrupt vector, rather presented 0 (a passive release condition)
to the adapter.
.IP "\fB%s%d at uba%d csr %o didn't interrupt\fR"
The device did not interrupt, possibly because it is broken, 
hung, or not the kind of device it is advertised to be.
.IP "\fB%s%d at %s%d csr %o vec %o ipl %x\fR (for UNIBUS and VAXBI controllers)"
The port %s%d, for example, uq0
was found on controller %s%d at control status register address %o 
and with controller interrupt vector %o.  
The controller interrupted at priority level %x.
.IP "\fB%s%d at %s%d csr %o zero vector\fR (for UNIBUS and VAXBI controllers)"
The port did not present
a valid interrupt vector, rather presented 0 (a passive release condition)
to the adapter.
.IP "\fB%s%d at %s%d csr %o didn't interrupt\fR (for UNIBUS and
VAXBI controllers)"
The port did not interrupt, possibly because 
it is broken, hung, or not the kind of port it is advertised to be.
.IP "\fBnbia%d at address %x\fR"
An nbia adapter was found at a NEXUS.
.IP "\fBvaxbi%d at address %x\fR"
A VAXBI number was found starting at
address %x.
.IP "\fB%s%d at vaxbi%d node %d\fR
The device, controller, or adapter
%s%d was found on vaxbi%d at node%d.
.IP "\fBvaxbi%x node%d, unsupported device type 0x%x\fR"
On a vaxbi%x at
node%d there is a device with type number 0x%x that is
unsupported by this release of ULTRIX.
.IP "\fB%s at vaxbi%d node%d option not configured!\fR"
A supported VAXBI
device %s, found at vaxbi%d node%d was not configured into the
system.  The device %s will not be seen by the system.  To use
device %s, configure the system with the device included in the
configuration file.
.IP "\fB%s at vaxbi%d node%d failed to initialize!\fR"
The device did not
initialize, possibly because it was broken.
\fBci%d - local port %d is initialized, ram/eeprom = %d/%d.\fR  The ci adapter whose local port
number is %d initialized successfully.  The ram/eeprom revision level is %d%d.
.IP "\fBhsc%d at ci%d (mscp) node #\fR"
The ci%d (mscp) node number is the physical ci node number of hsc%d.
.NXE "configuration file (syslog)" "diagnostics"
.SH See Also
intro(4), config(8)
.NXE "configuration file (syslog)"
