.\" SCCSID: @(#)console.4	8.1	9/11/90
.TH console 4 VAX
.SH Name
console \- console interface
.SH Description
.NXR "console interface"
On all but the busless small VAX processors,
the console is available to the processor through the console registers.
It acts like a normal terminal, except that, when the local functions are
not disabled, CTRL/P puts the console in local console mode (where
the prompt is ``>>>'').  This is true for all processors except the
MicroVAX line and busless small VAX processors (see the information that 
follows).  The operation of the console in this mode varies
slightly for each processor.
.PP
On a VAX-11/780 or VAX-11/785,
if you press the BREAK key on the console,
the console goes into ODT (console debugger mode).  
Press P (uppercase letter p) to return from this mode.
.PP
On a VAX-11/750 or a VAX-11/730 (11/725),
the processor is halted whenever the console is not 
in conversational mode. 
Press C (uppercase letter c) to return to conversational mode.
When in console mode on a VAX- 11/750 that has a remote diagnosis module,
a CTRL/D will put you in remote diagnosis mode,
where the prompt will be ``RDM>''.
The command  
.PN ret
will return from remote diagnosis
mode to local console mode.
.PP
On any MicroVAX, halt the processor by pressing the HALT 
button on the front panel. 
Pressing CTRL/P has no effect on either the MicroVAX-I or the
MicroVAX-II.  Press c (lowercase letter c ) on the console terminal
to return to the running system after the HALT button is released.
.PP
On the busless small VAX processor, halt the 
processor by pressing the HALT button
on the rear panel (located next to the printer port connector).
If the diagnostic console terminal is attached,
halt the processor by pressing the BREAK key.
For further information, see 
.MS ss 4 .
Typing CTRL/P has no effect on the busless small VAX processor.
Press c (lowercase letter c) on the console terminal to return to the
running system.
.PP
On an VAX 8800 (8700, 8500, 8550),
you can return to conversational mode using the command
.PN set t p
(set terminal program) if the processor is still
running, or 
.PN continue
if it is halted.
The 
.PN continue
command can be abbreviated to
.PN c .
Halt the processor by pressing CTRL/P.  Restart the processor 
by pressing c (lowercase letter c).
.PP
On a VAX 8600 (8650), halt the processor by pressing CTRL/P when the
terminal control switch on the front panel is in the LOCAL or 
REMOTE position.  When this switch is in the LOCAL position,
pressing CTRL/P at the console terminal is the only way to halt
the processor. 
When the switch is in the REMOTE position, both the
console terminal and the remote terminal (if present) can halt the
processor.  When the terminal control switch is in either LOCAL
position, only the console terminal will operate as any other ULTRIX
terminal.  When the terminal control switch is in either REMOTE
position, both the console terminal and the remote terminal will
operate as any other ULTRIX terminal.
.PP
On a VAX 8100 (8200, 8300),
halt the processor by pressing CTRL/P when the console is
ENABLED.  Press c (lowercase letter c) to return to the running system.
.SH Restrictions
On all but the busless small VAX processors,
the console serial line should be used at a relatively low baud rate
(2400 BPS or less) as it generally interrupts the CPU for each
character received or transmitted. Higher baud rates are permitted
but generally impede system performance so much as to warrant using
a lower baud rate.
On the small VAX, the console operates at 9600 BPS for a terminal
or 4800 BPS for a graphics device.  For further information,
see 
.MS ss 4 .
.SH Files
.PN /dev/console
.SH See Also
cty(4), ss(4), tty(4), MAKEDEV(8)
