.\" SCCSID: @(#)crl.4	8.1	9/11/90
.\" SCCSID: @(#)crl.4	8.1	9/11/90
.TH crl 4 VAX
.SH Name
crl \- RL02 console interface
.SH Description
.NXR "crl keyword"
.NXR "RL02 console interface"
.NXA "console interface" "RL02 console interface"
This is a simple interface to the RL02 disk unit, which is 
part of the console subsystem for the VAX 8600 (8650).
Access is given to the entire
RL02 consisting of 512 cylinders of two tracks of 20 sectors of 256 bytes.
The RL02 sectors are accessed as logical 512-byte disk blocks.
.PP
All I/O is raw; the seek addresses in raw transfers should be a multiple
of 512 and a multiple of 512 bytes should be transferred, as in other
``raw''  disk interfaces.
.SH Restrictions
Only one ``open'' is allowed to the console RL02 device
at any given time.
.PP
If a write is given with a count not a multiple of 512 bytes, the
trailing portion of the last logical block will be zeroed.
.PP
The primary purpose of this driver is to apply updates to the console
system disk.  A ``block'' interface is not provided.
.SH Diagnostics
.B "crl: hard error sn%d crlcs=0x%b, crlds=0x%b"
.br
The console subsystem has reported a hard error while performing the
requested I/O.	The 
.PN crlcs 
contains standard RLV211 control and status
information and 
.PN clrds
contains standard drive status information.
Bit expansion in ASCII is also provided.
.PP
.B "crl: hndshk error"
.br
An error in communications between the console subsystem software and
the ULTRIX operating system has occurred.
.SH Files
.PN /dev/crl
.SH See Also
MAKEDEV(8)
