.TH cxy 4
.SH Name
cxy \- CXY08 communications interface
.SH Syntax
.B "device dhu0 at uba0 csr 0160440 flags 0x?? vector dhurint dhuxint"
.SH Description
.NXR "CXY08 communications interface"
A CXY08 provides eight communication lines with modem control
adequate for UNIX dialup use. The device behaves and looks just
like a DHV11 and is specified in the configuration line the same
as a DHV11 device.
Each line attached to the CXY08 communications interface
behaves as described in
.MS tty 4
and can be set to run at any of 16 speeds. See
.MS tty 4
for the encoding.
.PP
Bit
.I i
of flags can be specified for a 
.PN cxy
device to say that a line is not properly
connected and that the line should be
treated as hardwired with carrier
always present.
Thus, specifying flags 0x04 in the specification of 
.PN dhu0
would cause line tty02 to be treated in this way.
.PP
The 
.PN dhu 
driver normally interrupts on each input character.
.NT
The 
.PN cxa ,
.PN cxb ,
.PN cxy ,
.PN dhv ,
and 
.PN dhq
devices operate under the control of the 
.PN dhu 
driver.
.SH Diagnostics
.B "dhu%d: receive fifo overflow
.br
The character input 
fifo overflowed
before it could be serviced.  This can happen if a hard error occurs
when the CPU is running with elevated priority, as the system 
then prints a message on the console with interrupts disabled.
This can cause a few input characters to be lost to users.
It is not serious.
.PP
.B "dhu%d:%d DMA ERROR
.br
A DMA transfer error has occurred.
The
.PN cxy
unit number and line number are printed.
This means that the channel indicated has failed to transfer DMA data
within 10.7 microseconds of the bus request being acknowledged or that
there is a memory parity error.
This may cause a few output characters to be lost.
.PP
.B "dhu%d: DIAG. FAILURE
.br
This indicates that the
.PN cxy
internal diagnostics have detected an error.
.PP
.B "dhu%d: DHU HARDWARE ERROR.  TX.DMA.START failed"
.br
The 
.PN cxy 
failed to clear the start bit.  Normally, this is 
cleared to signal 
that a DMA transfer has completed.
.SH Files
.TP 15
.PN /dev/tty??

.TP
.PN /dev/ttyd?
Dialups
.SH See Also
tty(4), MAKEDEV(8)
