.\" SCCSID: @(#)de.4	8.1	9/11/90
.\" SCCSID: @(#)de.4	8.1	9/11/90
.TH de 4 VAX
.SH Name
de \- DEUNA/DELUA Ethernet interface
.SH Syntax
.B "device de0 at uba0 csr 0174510 vector deintr"
.SH Description
.NXS "de interface" "DEUNA Ethernet interface"
.NXS "de interface" "DELUA Ethernet interface" 
.NXR "DEUNA Ethernet interface"
.NXR "DELUA Ethernet interface"
.NXS "Ethernet interface" "DEUNA Ethernet interface"
.NXS "Ethernet interface" "DELUA Ethernet interface"
.NXAM "network facilities" "DEUNA Ethernet interface"
.NXAM "network facilities" "DELUA Ethernet interface"
.NXA "DEUNA Ethernet interface" "Address Resolution Protocol"
.NXA "DELUA Ethernet interface" "Address Resolution Protocol"
The
.PN de
interface provides access to a 10 Mb/s Ethernet network through
a DEUNA/DELUA controller.
.PP
The host's Internet address is specified at boot time with an 
SIOCSIFADDR ioctl.  The
.PN de
interface employs the address resolution protocol described in
.MS arp 4p
to dynamically map between Internet and Ethernet addresses on the local
network.
.PP
The interface normally tries to use a ``trailer'' encapsulation
to minimize copying data on input and output.  This can be
disabled for an interface by setting the IFF_NOTRAILERS
flag with an SIOCSIFFLAGS ioctl.
Trailers are only used for packets destined for Internet hosts.
.PP
The SIOCSPHYSADDR ioctl can be used to change and SIOCRPHYSADDR can
be used to read the physical address of the board.  
.PP
SIOCADDMULTI 
and SIOCDELMULTI can be used to add  or delete multicast addresses.  
The board recognizes, at most, 10 multicast addresses. The argument 
to these ioctls is a pointer to an ifreq structure found in 
.PN <net/if.h> .
.PP
SIOCRDCTRS and SIOCRDZCTRS ioctls can be used to read or 
``read and clear'' the board counters. The argument to these 
two ioctls is a pointer to a counter structure ``ctrreq'' found in 
.PN <net/if.h> .
.PP
The ioctls SIOCENABLBACK and SIOCDISABLBACK can be used to enable
and disable the interface loopback mode.
.SH Restrictions
The PUP protocol family is not supported.
.SH Diagnostics
.B "de%d: command failed, csr0=%b csr1=%b"
.br
Here,
.B command
is one of \fBreset\fR, \fBpcbb\fR, \fBrdphyad\fR, \fBwtring\fR, or
\fBwtmode\fR.  This message is printed if
there is an error on device initialization.
The following command failures can occur during ioctl requests:
.PP
.B "wtphyadd"
.br
An attempt to change the physical address failed.
.PP
.B "rdphyadd"
.br
An attempt to read the physical address failed.
.PP
.B "wtmulti"
.br
An attempt to add a new multicast address failed.
.PP
.B "mtmulti failed, multicast list full"
.br
An attempt to add
a new multicast address failed because the maximum number of 
multicast addresses has been reached.
.PP
.B "rdcnts"
.br
An attempt to read the board counters failed.
.PP
The following messages occur while transmitting or receiving packets:
.PP
.B "de%d: buffer unavailable"
.br
Packets are being received by
the interface faster than they can be serviced by the driver.
.PP
.B "de%d: can't handle af%d"
.br
The interface was handed
a message with addresses formatted in an unsuitable address
family; the packet was dropped.
.SH See Also
arp(4p), inet(4f), intro(4n)
