.\" SCCSID: @(#)dmf.4	3.1	11/24/87
.TH dmf 4 VAX
.SH Name
dmf \- DMF32 communications interface
.SH Syntax
.B "device dmf0 at uba? csr 0160340 flags 0x????"
.br
.ti +0.5i
.B "vector dmfsrint dmfsxint dmfdaint dmfdbint dmfrint dmfxint dmflint"
.SH Description
.NXS "dmf interface" "DMF32 communications interface"
.NXR "DMF32 communications interface"
.NXA "DMF32 communications interface" "DMF32 serial printer interface"
The
.PN dmf
device provides eight lines of asynchronous serial line support with full
modem control on two lines only.   The device driver
also supports a connection to a line printer through the line printer
port of the DMF32.
.PP
Each line attached to a DMF32 serial line port behaves as described
in 
.MS tty 4 .
Input and output for each line can be set independently to run at any
of 16 speeds.  See 
.MS tty 4
for the encoding.
.PP
Bit
.I i
of 
.PN flags 
can be specified for a
.PN dmf
to say that a line is not properly connected, and that the
line should be treated as hardwired, with carrier always present.
Thus, specifying ``flags 0x00f6'' in the specification of
.PN dmf0
would cause lines 0 and 1 on the DMF32 to be treated 
as modem lines, while lines 2 through 7 are direct connect no-modem lines.
It is important to specify lines 2 through 7 as direct connect, because the
device does not support modem control on these lines.
.PP
The
.PN dmf
driver normally uses input silos and polls for input at each clock
tick (10 milliseconds).
.NT Caution
.NXR(c) "DMF32 communications interface" "restricted"
The DMF32 will discard incoming characters on the lines with
full modem control, if carrier is not present.
.NE
.SH Restrictions
The DMF32 provides other services, but these are
not supported by the driver.
.SH Diagnostics
.B "dmf%d: NXM line %d" 
.br
No response from UNIBUS on a 
.PN dma 
transfer within a timeout period.  This is often followed by a UNIBUS adapter
error.  This occurs most frequently when the UNIBUS is heavily loaded
and when devices that monopolize the bus, such as RK07s, are present.
It is not serious.
.PP
.B "dmf%d: silo overflow"
.br
The character input silo overflowed
before it could be serviced.  This can happen if a hard error occurs
when the CPU is running with elevated priority, as the system 
then prints a message on the console with interrupts disabled.
.PP
.B "dmfsrint"
.br
.B "dmfsxint"
.br
.B "dmfdaint"
.br
.B "dmfdbint"
.br
One of the unsupported ports of the DMF32 interrupted because
of a problem.  Check your interrupt vectors for a conflict with
another device.
.SH Files
.PN /dev/tty??
.TP 15
.PN /dev/ttyd?
(modem lines only)
.SH See Also
dmfsp(4), tty(4), MAKEDEV(8) 
