.\" SCCSID: @(#)dmz.4	8.1	9/11/90
.TH dmz 4 VAX
.SH Name
dmz \- DMZ32 communications interface
.SH Syntax
.B "device dmz0 at uba? csr 0160500 flags 0x????"
.br
.ti +0.5i
.B "vector dmzrinta dmzxinta dmzrintb dmzxintb dmzrintc dmzxintc"
.SH Description
.NXS "dmz interface" "DMZ32 communications interface"
.NXR "DMZ32 communications interface"
The
.PN dmz
device provides 24 lines of asynchronous serial line support with full
modem control on all lines.
.PP
Each line attached to a DMZ32 serial line port behaves as described
in 
.MS tty 4 .
Input and output for each line can be set independently to run at any
of 16 speeds.  See 
.MS tty 4
for the encoding.
.PP
You can specify bit
.I i
of 
.PN flags 
for a
.PN dmz
to say that a line is not properly connected and that the
line should be treated as hardwired, with the carrier always present.
For example, specifying ``flags 0x000004'' in the specification of
.IR dmz0
would cause line 2 to be treated in this way.
.SH Diagnostics
.B "dmz%d: NXM line %d" 
.br
No response within a timeout period
from UNIBUS on a DMA transfer.
This is often followed by a UNIBUS adapter
error.  This occurs most frequently when the UNIBUS is heavily loaded
and when devices, such as RK07s, which monopolize the bus, are present.
It is not serious.
.PP
.B "dmz%d: silo overflow" 
.br
The character input silo overflowed
before it could be serviced.  This can happen if a hard error occurs
when the CPU is running with elevated priority, as the system
then prints a message on the console with interrupts disabled.
.SH Files
.PN /dev/tty??
.TP 15
.PN /dev/ttyd?
(modem lines only)
.fi
.SH See Also
tty(4), MAKEDEV(8)
