.TH fg 4 VAX
.SH Name
fg \- VCB03 - Midrange VAX color video subsystem
.SH Syntax
.B "device fg0 at ibus? flags 0x0f vector fgvint
.SH Description
.NXS "fg interface" "color video subsystem"
.NXR "color video subsystem"
The VCB03 is a high-performance, full-page, double-buffered video
subsystem capable of Z-buffering.  The device consists of a 2048 bits
wide x 2048 bits long x 8 or 24 plane frame buffer, a set of
proprietary video chips for bitmap modification and video output,
onboard VAX CPU and floating point accelerator, a 3D Transformation
Engine, 1280 wide x 1024 long 19-inch color video monitor, keyboard,
and a mouse or tablet.
.PP
The subsystem device driver supports a hybrid terminal with three
minor devices.  The first device emulates a glass tty with a screen
that appears as a 80-column by 60-row page that scrolls from the
bottom.  This device is capable of being configured as the system
console.
.PP
The second minor device number is reserved for the pointer.  This
device is a source of pointer state changes.  (A state change is
defined as an X/Y axis pointer movement or button change.)  When
opened, the driver couples movements of the pointer with the cursor.
Pointer position changes are filtered and translated into cursor
position changes in an exponential manner.  Rapid movements result in
large cursor position changes.  All cursor positions are range checked
to ensure that the cursor remains on the display.
.PP
The third minor device is opened in the raw mode by default.  Opening
the third device makes the driver function like a pseudo-tty in that
the output destined for the first minor device is channeled to the
third instead.
.PP
The Hold Screen key is supported. The driver treats this
key as if CTRL/S or CTRL/Q is typed.
Pressing the Hold Screen key suspends the output
if it is not already suspended. The output
will be resumed by pressing this key again
(if the output was suspended).
.SH Files
/dev/console
.br
/dev/fg0
.br
/dev/fgscreen
.SH See Also
fc(4), ttys(5), MAKEDEV(8)
