.\" SCCSID: @(#)ln.4	3.1	11/24/87
.TH fza 4 
.SH Name
fza \- DEFZA FDDI Network Interface
.SH Syntax
.B device fza0 at ibus? vector fzaintr
.SH Description
.NXR "fza interface" "DEFZA FDDI Network interface"
.NXR "DEFZA FDDI Network interface"
.NXR "FDDI interface" "DEFZA FDDI Network interface"
The
.PN fza 
interface is a high speed TURBOchannel bus to a 100 Mbit/second 
Fiber Distributed Data Interface (FDDI) timed token ring network adapter.
The 
.PN fza 
interface allows the host system to be an FDDI single attachment station.
.PP
The host's Internet address is specified at boot time with
an SIOCSIFADDR ioctl.
The
.PN fza 
interface employs the address resolution protocol described in
.MS arp 4p
to map dynamically between Internet and FDDI addresses on the local
network.
.PP
The maximum frame size for the 
.PN fza 
interface is 4500 bytes, which is substantially larger that
the 1500 bytes maximum packet size of the Ethernet 
interfaces. The
.PN fza
interface does not support the BSD trailer encapsulation, which 
is specific to the VAX architecture.
.PP
The SIOCRPHYSADDR ioctl can
be used to read the physical address of the DEFZA adapter. The physical address
of the DEFZA adapter can not be changed.
.PP
The SIOCADDMULTI and SIOCDELMULTI ioctls can be used to add or delete
multicast addresses.  
The DEFZA supports up to 64 multicast addresses.
.PP
The SIOCRDCTRS ioctl can be used to read the FDDI driver counters.
The DEFZA adapter status and characteristics can also be read through this
ioctl by providing a FDDI_STATUS flag . The argument to this ioctl is a 
pointer to a counter or status structure, 
.PN ctrreq ,
found in 
.BR <net/if.h> .
.PP
The SIOCENABLBACK and SIOCDISABLBACK ioctls can be used to enable
and disable the interface loopback mode, respectively.
.PP
The SIOCEEUPDATE ioctl can be used to update the adapter's firmware.
.PP
The SIOCIFRESET ioctl can be used to reset the adapter.   
.SH Diagnostics 
Diagnostic error messages contain information provided by the 
.PN fza
driver. For example:
.PP
.EX
fza%d: fzaprobe selftest failed 
.EE
The DEFZA adapter did not pass the power-up selftest during
autoconfiguration.
.EX
fza%d: port init failed 
.EE
The DEFZA adapter cannot be initialized.
.EX
fza%d: port in the Halt State -> CNS hardware fault
.EE
The DEFZA adapter went to the Halt state because of an adapter firmware
fault.
.EX
fza%d: LINK unavailable
.EE
The network link went down which means that the station is not on
the FDDI ring.
.EX
fza%d: Ring Init Received
.EE
A Ring Initialization unsolicited event has been received from 
the fza%d interface. 
.SH See Also
arp(4p), inet(4f), intro(4n)
