.\" SCCSID: @(#)hy.4	8.1	9/11/90
.TH hy 4 VAX "" Unsupported
.SH Name
hy \- Network Systems Hyperchannel interface
.SH Syntax
.B "device hy0 at uba0 csr 0172410 vector hyint"
.SH Description
The
.PN hy
interface provides access to a Network
Systems Corporation Hyperchannel Adapter.
.PP
The network to which the interface is attached
is specified at boot time with an SIOCSIFADDR ioctl.  
The host's address is discovered by reading the adapter status
register.  The interface will not transmit or receive
packets until the network number is known.
.SH Restrictions
If the adapter does not respond to the status command
issued during autoconfigure, the adapter is assumed down.
A reboot is required to recognize it.
.SH Diagnostics
\fBhy%d: unit number 0x%x port %d type %x microcode level 0x%x\fP.
.br
Identifies the device during autoconfiguration.
.PP
\fBhy%d: can't handle af%d\fP.
.br
The interface was handed
a message with addresses formatted in an unsuitable address
family; the packet was dropped.
.PP
\fBhy%d: can't initialize\fP.
.br
The interface was unable to allocate UNIBUS resources. This
is usually due to having too many network devices on an 11/750
where there are only 3 buffered data paths.
.PP
\fBhy%d: NEX - Non Existent Memory\fP.
.br
Non existent memory error returned from hardware.
.PP
\fBhy%d:  BAR overflow\fP.
.br
Bus address register
overflow error returned from hardware.
.PP
\fBhy%d: Power Off bit set, trying to reset\fP.
.br
Adapter has lost power, driver will reset the bit
and see if power is still out in the adapter.
.PP
\fBhy%d: Power Off Error, network shutdown\fP.
.br
Power was really off in the adapter, network
connections are dropped.
Software does not shut down the network unless
power has been off for a while.
.PP
\fBhy%d: RECVD MP > MPSIZE (%d)\fP.
.br
A message proper was received that is too big.
Probable a driver bug.
Shouldn't happen.
.PP
\fBhy%d: xmit error \- len > hy_olen [%d > %d]\fP.
.br
Probable driver error.
Shouldn't happen.
.PP
\fBhy%d: DRIVER BUG \- INVALID STATE %d\fP.
.br
The driver state machine reached a non-existent state.
Definite driver bug.
.PP
\fBhy%d: watchdog timer expired\fP.
.br
A command in the adapter has taken too long to complete.
Driver will abort and retry the command.
.PP
\fBhy%d: adapter power restored\fP.
.br
Software was able to reset the power off bit,
indicating that the power has been restored.
.SH See Also
intro(4n), inet(4f)
