.\" SCCSID: @(#)ni.4	8.2	3/28/91
.TH ni 4 VAX
.SH Name
ni \- BVP DEBNT/NI interface
.SH Syntax
.nf
.B "controller  aie? 	at vaxbi? node?"
.B "device      bvpni0 	at aie? vector bvpniintr"
.fi
.SH Description
.NXS "ni interface" "BVP DEBNT/NI interface"
.NXR "BVP DEBNT/NI interface"
.NXR "Ethernet address" "mapping to Internet address"
.NXR "Internet address" "mapping to Ethernet address"
The
.PN ni
driver provides access to a 10 Mb/s Ethernet network through
the NI port of the DEBNT controller. The DEBNT also has a tape
port that shares the controller structure with the NI port.
.PP
The host's Internet address is specified at boot time with an 
SIOCSIFADDR ioctl.  The
.PN ni
driver employs the Address Resolution Protocol described in
.MS arp 4p
to dynamically map addresses on the local network
between Internet and Ethernet.
.PP
The driver normally tries to use a ``trailer'' encapsulation
to minimize copying data on input and output.  This can be
disabled for an interface by setting the IFF_NOTRAILERS
flag with an SIOCSIFFLAGS ioctl.
Trailers are only used for packets destined for Internet hosts.
.PP
The SIOCSPHYSADDR ioctl can be used to change and SIOCRPHYSADDR can
be used to read the physical address of the NI.  SIOCADDMULTI 
and SIOCDELMULTI can be used to add or delete multicast addresses.  
The NI supports a maximum of 32 multicast addresses. The argument 
to the latter ioctls is a pointer to an ifreq structure found in 
<net/if.h>.
.PP
SIOCRDCTRS and SIOCRDZCTRS ioctls can be used to ``read'' or 
``read and clear'' network counters. The argument to the latter 
two ioctls is a pointer to a counter structure ``ctrreq\*n found 
in <net/if.h>.
.PP
The ioctls SIOCENABLBACK and SIOCDISABLBACK can be used to enable
and disable the interface loopback mode respectively.
.SH Restrictions
The PUP protocol family is not supported. 
.SH Diagnostics
.B "ni%d in wrong state"
.br
DEBNT is unable to be attached during
autoconfiguration time, because it is not in the undefined state.
.PP
.B "ni%d cannot initialize"
.br
DEBNT failed to become initialized after
a request to become initialized.
.PP
.B "nid%d cannot enable"
.br
DEBNT failed to become enabled after a 
request to become enabled.
.PP
.B "reset ni%d %x %x %x %x"
.br
DEBNT has requested a software reset.
Values of port control, port status, port error, and port data
are given to help identify what caused the reset request.
.PP
.B "ni%d SUME error detected %x %x %x %x"
.br
Some error has been detected.
Values of port error, port data, port status, and port control are
given to help identify the cause of the error.
.PP
.B "ni%d cant handle af%d"
.br
A packet with an undefined protocol type has been sent to DEBNT.
.PP
.B "ni%d multi failed, multicast list full"
.br
Too many multicast requests have been made.
.SH See Also
arp(4p), inet(4f), intro(4n)
