.\" SCCSID: @(#)rx.4	8.1	9/11/90
.\" SCCSID: @(#)rx.4	8.1	9/11/90
.TH rx 4 VAX
.SH Name
rx \- RX33/RX23 Small VAX floppy disk drive
.SH Description
.\"This page exists only to reference sdc.4
.NXS "rx keyword" "RX33 disk interface"
The RX33 floppy disk drive, when used by either the workstation
or multiuser configurations of the busless Small VAX processor,
is supported by the SDC disk driver.  The SDC disk driver also supports
the RX23 floppy disk drive in VAXstation 3100 Model 30 systems.
The SDC driver handles the RX33/RX23 disk on drive 2.
.PP
The RX33 floppy disk drive reads and writes both RX33 and RX50
floppy diskettes.  The RX23 floppy disk drive reads and writes high
density (18 sectors per track) RX23 floppy diskettes and reads
double density (9 sectors per track) RX23 floppy diskettes.
.SS "Formatting RX23 Floppy Diskettes (VAXstation 3100 Model 30 Only)"
The floppy diskettes used with the RX23 floppy disk drive are not always
preformatted.  Although the ULTRIX system does not currently include
support for online formatting of diskettes, the VAXstation 3100
diagnostic \f(CWt 70\fP
command allows you to format diskettes.
.PP
Use the following steps to format diskettes:
.IP 1. 5
Shut down the ULTRIX Worksystem Software, and halt the processor.
.EX
# /etc/shutdown \-h +5
.EE
.IP 2. 5
Insert the diskette into the RX23 drive.
.IP 3. 5
Enter the following at the prompt:
.EX
>>> t 70

.EE
The \f(CWt 70\fP
command begins to prompt you for information. Answer each query as in the
following example. Press the RETURN key after each response:
.EX
     KA42 RDRXfmt

VSfmt_QUE_unitno (0-3) ? 2

VSfmt_QUE_RXmedtyp

( 1=RX33 ),( 2=RX23 ) ? 2

VSfmt_QUE_RUsure (DUA2 1/0)  ? 1

VSfmt_STS_FMTing ..... OK

VSfmt_STS_CKRXfmt .....OK

VSfmt_RES_Succ
>>>
.EE
.SH Files
.PN /dev/rx2a
.br
.PN /dev/rx2c
.br
.PN /dev/rrx2a
.br
.PN /dev/rrx2c
.SH See Also
sdc(4)
