.\" SCCSID: @(#)stc.4	8.2	3/28/91
.\" SCCSID: @(#)stc.4	8.2	3/28/91
.TH stc 4 VAX
.SH Name
stc \- TZK50 (VAXstation TK50) magnetic tape interface
.SH Syntax
.B "controller stc0 at uba0 csr 0x200c0080 vector stintr"
.br
.B "tape st0 at stc0 drive 0"
.SH Description
.NXS "stc interface" "TZK50 magnetic tape interface" 
.NXS "TK50 magnetic tape interface" "TZK50 magnetic tape interface"
.NXR "TK50 magnetic tape interface"
The TZK50/TK50 combination
provides a standard tape drive interface,
as described in 
.MS mtio 4 .
The TZK50 is supported only on the VAXstation 2000 
and the MicroVAX 2000.
This driver also supports n-buffered reads and writes to
the raw tape interface (used with streaming tape drives).
See 
.MS nbuf 4 
for further details.
.SH Diagnostics
The following messages are printed at the console:
.PP
.B "st0: arbitration failed after %d tries"
.br
After the indicated number of tries, the system gives
up trying to arbitrate for the TK50 bus.
.PP
.B "st0: device failed to select"
.br
The host was not able to select the TK50
device on the bus.
.PP
.B "st0: device failed to reselect"
.br
The host was not able to reselect the
TK50 device on the bus.
.PP
.B "st0: parity error"
.br
A parity error was encountered as part of a command or status
packet.
.PP
.B "st0: bus reset"
.br
The TK50 bus has just been reset.
.PP
.B "st0: buffer too large"
.br
A read or write was requested that exceeds the 16K maximum supported
block size of this driver.
.PP
.B "st0: aborting transfer"
.br
An error has occurred, and the request to the driver is
being aborted.
.PP
.B "st0: request sense data: %x %x %x %x %x %x %x %x %x %x"
.br
When an error occurs, the request sense data is the last command's
status sent from the TZK50 controller.
.PP
.B "st0: software error"
.br
The software has sent an illegal request to the drive.
.PP
.B "st0: controller failed selftest"
.br
The TZK50 controller failed power on selftest.  The drive is unusable.
.PP
.B "st0: drive failed selftest, code = 0x%x "
.br
The TZK50 tape drive failed power on selftest.  The drive is unusable.  
The drive error code is reported in hexadecimal.
.PP
.B "st0: controller firmware revision %d not supported"
.br
The indicated controller firmware revision is not supported by ULTRIX.  
.PP
.B "st0: soft error, sense key = 0x%x"
.br
A nonfatal error has occurred.  The sense key is part of 
the request sense data returned from the TZK50 controller.
.PP
.B "st0: hard error, sense key = 0x%x"
.br
A fatal error has occurred.  The sense key is part of the
request sense data returned from the TZK50 controller.
.PP
.SH Restrictions
The maximum block size supported by the stc driver is 16K bytes.  Block sizes
greater than 16,384 bytes produce the error message 
.B st0: buffer too large.
.SH Files
.PN /dev/rmt???
.br
.PN /dev/nrmt???
.SH See Also
mtio(4), nbuf(4), MAKEDEV(8), uerf(8)
