.\" SCCSID: @(#)tms.4	3.1	11/24/87
.TH tms 4
.SH Name
tms \- TMSCP magnetic tape interface
.SH Syntax
.B For UNIBUS, Q-bus:
.RS 3
.br
.B "controller klesiu0 at uba0"
.br
.B "controller uq0 at klesiu0 csr 0174500 vector uqintr"
.br
.B "tape tms0 at uq0 drive 0"
.RE
.PP
.B For MSI Bus:
.RS 3
.br
.B "adapter msi0 at nexus?"
.br
.B "controller dssc0 at msi0 msinode 0"
.br
.B "tape tms0 at dssc0 drive 3"
.RE
.PP
.B For VAXBI:
.RS 3
.br
.B "controller klesib0 at vaxbi0 node 0"
.br
.B "controller uq0 at klesib0 vector uqintr"
.br
.B "tape tms0 at uq0 drive 0"
.sp
.B "controller aie0 at vaxbi? node?"
.br
.B "controller bvpssp0 at aie0 vector bvpsspintr"
.br
.B "tape tms0 at bvpssp0 drive 0"
.RE
.PP
.B For MSI Bus:
.RS 3
.br
.B "adapter msi0 at nexus?"
.br
.B "controller dssc0 at msi0 msinode 0"
.br
.B "tape tms0 at dssc0 drive 0"
.RE
.PP
.B For VAX CI/HSC:
.RS 3
.br
.B "adapter ci0 at nexus?"
.br
.B "adapter ci0 at vaxbi? node?"
.br
.B "controller hsc0 at ci0 cinode 6"
.br
.B "tape tms0 at hsc0 drive 3"
.RE
.SH Description
.NXR "tms interface" "TMSCP magnetic tape interface"
.NXR "Tape Mass Storage Control Protocol" "TMSCP magnetic tape interface"
.NXR "TMSCP magnetic tape interface" "nbuf keyword"
.NXR "TK50 magnetic tape interface"
.NXR "TK70 magnetical tape interface"
.NXR "TU81 magnetic tape interface"
.NXR "TU81E magnetic tape interface"
.NXR "TA90 magnetic tape interface"
.NXR "TA91 magnetic tape interface"
.NXR "tmscp keyword" "tms interface"
Prior to Version 2.0, this device was referenced by 
tmscp(4).
.PP
The TMSCP driver provides a standard tape drive interface,
as described in
.MS mtio 4 .
This is a driver for any controller that adheres
to the Tape Mass Storage Control Protocol (TMSCP).
The TMSCP controllers communicate with the host
through a packet-oriented protocol termed
the Tape Mass Storage Control Protocol.
This driver also supports n-buffered reads and writes to
the raw tape interface (used with streaming tape drives).
See
.MS nbuf 4
for further details.
.SH Tape Support
TK50, TK70, TF70, TU81, TU81e, TA78, TA79, TA81, RV20, TA90, TA90E, TA91
.SH Diagnostics
.PP
All diagnostic messages are sent to the error logger subsystem.
.SH Files
.PN /dev/rmt???
.br
.PN /dev/nrmt???
.SH See Also
mtio(4), nbuf(4), MAKEDEV(8), uerf(8), tapex(8)
.br
\fIGuide to the Error Logger\fP
