.\" SCCSID: @(#)tu.4	8.1	9/11/90
.TH tu 4 VAX
.SH Name
tu \- TM03/TE16/TU45/TU77 magnetic tape interface
.SH Syntax
.B "master ht0 at mba? drive ?"
.br
.B "tape tu0 at ht0 slave 0"
.SH Description
.NXS "ht keyword" "TM03 magnetic tape interface"
.NXA "TM03 magnetic tape interface" "TU58 console cassette interface"
.NXS "tu interface" "TM03 magnetic tape interface"
.NXR "tu interface" "TE16 magnetic tape interface"
.NXR "tu interface" "TU45 magnetic tape interface"
.NXR "tu interface" "TU77 magnetic tape interface"
.NXR "TM03 magnetic tape interface"
.NXR "TE16 magnetic tape interface"
.NXR "TU45 magnetic tape interface"
.NXR "TU77 magnetic tape interface"
Prior to Version 2.0, this device was referenced by
.MS ht 4 .
.PP
The TM03/transport combination provides a standard tape drive
interface, as described in
.MS mtio 4 .
All drives provide both 800 and 1600 bpi.
The TE16 runs at 45 ips,
the TU45 at 75 ips, and the TU77 runs at 125 ips and autoloads tapes.
.SH Diagnostics
.B "tu%d: no write ring"
.br
An attempt was made to write on the tape drive
when no write ring was present.
This message is written on the terminal of
the user who tried to access the tape.
.PP
.B "tu%d: not on line"
.br
An attempt was made to access the tape while it
was off line.
This message is written on the terminal of the user
who tried to access the tape.
.PP
.B "tu%d: can't switch density in mid-tape"
.br
An attempt was made to write on a tape at a different density
than is already recorded on the tape.
This message is written on the terminal of the user who tried to switch
the density.
.PP
.B "tu%d: hard error bn%d"
.br
A tape error occurred at block \fIbn\fR.
Any error is fatal on nonraw tape.
When possible, the driver will have retried
the operation and failed several times before reporting the error.
Additional register information can be gathered from the
system error log file,
\f(CW/usr/adm/syserr/syserr.\fI<hostname>\fR.
.SH Files
.PN /dev/rmt???
.br
.PN /dev/nrmt???
.SH See Also
mtio(4), nbuf(4), MAKEDEV(8), uerf(8)
