.\" SCCSID: @(#)vv.4	8.1	9/11/90
.TH vv 4 VAX "" Unsupported
.SH Name
vv \- Proteon proNET 10 Megabit ring
.SH Syntax
.B "device vv0 at uba0 csr 0161000 vector vvrint vvxint"
.SH Description
The
.PN vv
interface provides access to a 10 Mb/s Proteon proNET ring network.
.PP
The network number to which the interface is attached must
be specified with an SIOCSIFADDR ioctl before data can be
transmitted or received.
The host's address is discovered by putting the interface in
digital loopback mode (not joining the ring)
and sending a broadcast packet from which the source
address is extracted.
the Internet address of the interface would be 128.3.0.24.
.PP
The interface software implements error-rate limiting on
the input side.
This provides a defense against situations where other hosts
or interface hardware failures cause a machine to be
inundated with garbage packets.
The scheme involves an exponential backoff where the input
side of the interface is disabled for longer and longer periods.
In the limiting case,
the interface is turned on every two minutes or so to see
if operation can resume.
.PP
If the installation is running CTL boards which use the old broadcast
address of 0 instead of the new address of 0xff, the define OLD_BROADCAST
should be specified in the driver.
.PP
If the installation has a Wirecenter, the define WIRECENTER should
be specified in the driver.
.BR N.B. :
Incorrect definition of WIRECENTER can cause hardware damage.
.PP
The interface normally tries to use a ``trailer'' encapsulation
to minimize copying data on input and output.  This may be
disabled, on a per-interface basis, by setting the IFF_NOTRAILERS
flag with an SIOCSIFFLAGS ioctl.
.SH Diagnostics
\fBvv%d: host %d\fP.
.br
The software announces the host
address discovered during autoconfiguration.
.PP
\fBvv%d: can't initialize\fP.
.br
The software was unable to
discover the address of this interface, so it deemed
"dead" will not be enabled.
.PP
\fBvv%d: error vvocsr=%b\fP.
.br
The hardware indicated an error on
the previous transmission.
.PP
\fBvv%d: output timeout\fP.
.br
The token timer has fired and the
token will be recreated.
.PP
\fBvv%d: error vvicsr=%b\fP.
.br
The hardware indicated an error
in reading a packet off the ring.
.PP
\fBen%d: can't handle af%d\fP.
.br
The interface was handed
a message with addresses formatted in an unsuitable address
family; the packet was dropped.
.PP
\fBvv%d: vs_olen=%d\fP.
.br
The ring output routine has been
handed a message with a preposterous length.  This results in
an immediate 
.IR "panic: vs_olen" .
.SH See Also
intro(4n), inet(4f)
