.\" V4.0 source updated for V4.Titanium
.\" 
.\" Updated on 26.10.90 by Karen Campbell, OSCR-Europe  
.\"
.\" Submitted for FT 9-Nov-90.
.\"
.\" Print this document on a PostScript printer using the command line
.\"	tbl filename | ditroff \-Tps \-man | devps | lpr
.\"
.\"
.TH ansi_ps 8
.SH Name
ansi_ps, regis_ps, tek4014_ps \- datatype to PostScript translators
.SH Syntax
.B /usr/lib/lpdfilters/ansi_ps
[
.I options
]
.PP
.B /usr/lib/lpdfilters/regis_ps
[
.I options
]
.PP
.B /usr/lib/lpdfilters/tek4014_ps
[
.I options
]
.SH Description
Each translator reads from standard input and writes to standard output.
If the data type is to be printed on a PostScript printer with
specialised support, the translator is invoked by
.PN lpd
using the
.PN xlator_call
script.
Refer to
.MS xlator_call 8 .
.PP
The
.PN ansi_ps
command is the ANSI to PostScript translator.
.PP
The
.PN regis_ps
command is the Regis to PostScript translator.
.PP
The
.PN tek4014_ps
command is the Tektronix 4014 to PostScript translator.
.PP
The ANSI translator implements DEC-STD-074-0
.I (Printer System Reference Manual) \"TITLE_EXEMPT\"
and conforms to ISO/DSI 6429, ISO/DSI 2022, and ANSI X3.4 standards.
Escape sequences (documented in the translator reference manual) that do
not begin with DEC are taken from the ISO/DSI 6429, ISO/DSI 2022 and ANSI X3.4
standards. 
Escape sequences that begin with DEC are legal extensions of DEC-STD-074-0.
The ANSI translator implements a few of the escape sequences documented in 
these standards.
.PP
.NXR "Postscript translator" "datatype"
.NXR "translator" "Postscript"
.PP
The ANSI translator,
.PN ansi_ps ,
requires a preamble to be present in the printer, and is designed to 
send this preamble to the printer.
However, it is quicker if the TCP/IP Supporting Host Software loads the
preamble at boot time.
.PP
For instructions on what to do to enable the TCP/IP Supporting Host software
to load the preamble when it boots, and to disable the translator from
sending the preamble, see the \fIRelease Notes\fP.
.SH Options
The valid options for the
.PN ansi_ps
translator are:
.IP \fB\-e\fR .3i
Interpret line feed as carriage return line feed.
It is implemented by sending the control sequence string,
.PN <CSI>20h
to the translator before reading standard input.
.IP \fB\-F\fIpagesize\fR .3i
Select the size of the pages to be printed.
The valid page sizes are: \fI letter, a, ledger, b, legal, executive, a5, 
a4, a3, b5 \fRor\fI b4\fR.
If the page size is not specified, \fIa4\fR is used.
.IP \fB\-O\fIorientation\fR .3i
Select the orientation of the text on the page.
The valid orientations are:\fI portrait\fR or \fIlandscape\fR.
If the orientation is not specified, \fIportrait\fR is used.
.IP \fB\-m\fIoutput_mode\fR .3i
Select the output mode of
.PN ansi_ps .
The output modes are:
.sp 6p
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
lw(.1i) lw(.6i) lw(4i).
 @\fI8f\fR@Full 8-bit output
 @\fI7f\fR@7-bit output
 @\fI8g\fR@GL/GR only
 @\fI7g\fR@GL only
.TE
.PP
.sp 6p
.IP \& .3i
If the output mode is not specified, \fI8f\fR is used.
.IP \fB\-R\fIresource_string\fR .3i
Inform
.PN ansi_ps
of a pre-loaded resource present in the PostScript 
environment of the printer.
Multiple \fB\-R\fR options may be passed.
.IP \fB\-s\fR .3i
Inhibit the final showpage.
This allows more than one page to be printed on each sheet.
.PP
The valid options for the
.PN regis_ps
and
.PN tek4014_ps
translators are:
.IP \fB\-F\fIpagesize\fR .3i
Select the size of the pages to be printed.
The valid page sizes are: \fIletter, a, ledger, b, legal, executive, a5, 
a4, a3, b5\fR or \fIb4\fR.
If the page size is not specified, \fIa4\fR is used.
.IP \fB\-O\fIorientation\fR .3i
Select the orientation of the text on the page.
The valid orientations are: \fIportrait\fR or \fIlandscape\fR.
If the orientation is not specified, \fIportrait\fR is used.
.IP \fB\-s\fR .3i
Inhibit the final showpage.
This allows more than one page to be printed on each sheet.
.SH See Also
ln03rof(8), lpd(8), xlator_call(8)
