.\" SCCSID: @(#)arp.8c	8.2	3/28/91
.TH arp 8c
.SH Name
arp \- address resolution display and control 
.SH Syntax  
.br
\fBarp \-a\fR [\fIvmunix\fR] [\fIkmem\fR]
.br
\fBarp [\-d] \fIhostname\fR
.br
\fBarp \-f \fIfilename\fR
.br
\fBarp \-s \fIhostname ether_addr\fR [\fItemp\fR] [\fIpub\fR] [\fItrail\fR]
.SH Description
.NXR "arp program"
.NXAM "Address Resolution Protocol" "arp program"
.NXS "arp keyword" "arp program"
The
.PN arp
program displays and modifies
the Internet-to-Ethernet address translation
tables used by the address resolution protocol 
.MS arp 4p .
.PP
The 
.I hostname
is the name of the host system for which information
will be displayed or modified.
.PP
With no flags, the program displays the current ARP entry for
.I hostname.
.SH Options
.TP 5
.B \-a
Displays current Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) entries
from the specified name list and core files (next arguments).
If not specified, uses 
.PN /vmunix
and
.PN /dev/mem ,
respectively.
.TP 5
.B \-d
Deletes the entry for the host specified by name (next argument).
.TP 5
.B \-f
Reads information from the specified file (next argument) and
modifies entries accordingly.
Entries in the file should be of the following form, with
argument meanings as given previously:
.EX
hostname ether_addr [ temp ] [ pub ] [ trail ]
.EE
.TP 5
.B \-s
Creates an ARP entry for the host called
.I hostname
with the Ethernet address
.I ether_addr.
The Ethernet address is given as six hexadecimal
bytes separated by colons. 
The entry will be permanent unless the word \fItemp\fR is given in the command.  
If the word \fIpub\fR is given, the entry will be published.  That is, the
system will act as an ARP server, responding to requests for
.I hostname
even though the host address is not its own.  The word \fItrail\fR indicates
that trailer encapsulations may be sent to this host.
.SH See Also
arp(4p), ifconfig(8c)
