.TH automount 8nfs
.SH Name
automount \- automatically and transparently mounts and unmounts NFS file systems
.SH Syntax
.B /usr/etc/automount
[
.B \-mnTv
.\" v
]
[
.I \-D name=
.I value
]
[
.B \-f 
.I master-file
]
.br
[
.B \-M 
.I mount-directory
]
[
.B \-tl
.I duration 
.\" .I sub-options
]
[
.B \-tm
.I interval
]
[
.B \-tw
.I interval  
]
.br
[
.I directory mapname
[
.B \-
.I mount-options
]]
.SH Description
The 
.PN automount 
.NXR "automount command"
command  
transparently mounts and
unmounts NFS file systems on an as-needed basis.  
It is useful for mounting file systems and directories that are
needed only occasionally, and
it provides an alternative to using
.PN /etc/fstab
.\" .NXR "automount command" "/etc/fstab file"
.\" .NXR "automount command" "/etc/rc.local file"
for NFS mounting file systems on client machines.
.PP
The 
.PN automount
program can be started from the
.PN /etc/rc.local
file or the command line. 
.\".NXR "automount command" "and /etc/fstab file"
.\".NXR "automount command" "and /etc/rc.local file"
The daemon forked by the
.PN automount
program sleeps until a user attempts to access a directory that is
associated with an 
.PN aautomount 
map.
The daemon then consults the appropriate map and mounts the NFS
file system.  If the indicated directory has not already been created,
the daemon creates it and removes it after automatic 
.PN unmount .
.PP
Local 
.PN automount 
maps are typically located in the
.PN /etc
directory but can be placed in any directory. 
You also can use the Yellow Pages Service to distribute
.PN automount
maps. 
The maps indicate where to find the file system to be
mounted, the local mount point, and mount options.  After a specified 
period of inactivity on a file system, 5 minutes by default, the
.PN automount
daemon unmounts that file system.
.PP
An individual automount map is either local or served by the Yellow
Pages.  A system, however,
can use both local and Yellow Pages automount maps.
When a map is referenced, the
.PN automount
program first looks for the designated 
.I mapname 
locally.  If it 
cannot find the 
.I mapname 
locally, it looks for a Yellow
Pages map by that name.
The names of the maps are passed to  
.PN automount
from the command line, or from a master map. 
.PP
If the command line
and the master 
map contain contradictory arguments, those on the command line take precedence.
.PP
By default, the daemon mounts the remote file system under the directory
.PN /tmp_mnt
and creates a symbolic link between the requested and the actual
mount points.
.SS Maps
Conventionally, 
.PN automount 
maps are files that are located in the
.PN /etc 
directory with names that have the prefix
.PN auto .  
.NXR "automount maps"
They indicate which remote file systems to mount,
where to mount them, and which options to use.  
.ne 6
.SS "\fIThe Master Map"
The 
.PN automount
program can consult a master map, which contains entries that point to other
maps that can be either direct or indirect.  If Yellow Pages is running,
.PN automount
checks for the presence of a YP map named 
.PN auto.master .
You are not required to run YP or have an 
.PN auto.master
map.  A master map can also be a file whose location is specified with 
the 
.PN \-f 
command line option.  
.PP
The master map provides 
.PN automount 
with a list of maps, and with arguments that pertain
to each of the maps. 
Each line in the
master map has the following syntax:
.PP
.I "mount-point   map  [mount-options]"
.PP
.IP \(bu 4
.I Mount-point
is the full pathname of a local directory if the
.I map
argument is the name of an indirect map or the name of a special map.
If the
.I map 
argument is the name of a direct map, the dummy directory ``/-'' is 
specified as the 
.I mount-point.
.IP \(bu 4
.I Map
is the name of the map the automount command uses to find the mount points
and locations.  This can either be a filename, a YP map name, or a
special map name.
.IP \(bu 4
.I Mount-options
is a list of options used to regulate the mounting of entries listed in
.I map.
.ne 6
.SS "\fIDirect Maps"
Direct maps specify which remote file systems to mount locally and what
the local mount points are. They do not point to other maps. They also
can specify mount options. 
Direct maps have the following syntax:
.PP
.I "key   [mount-options]   location"
.PP
.IP \(bu 4
.I Key
is the full pathname of the mount point.
.IP \(bu 4
.I Mount-options
are the options for this specific mount. When present, these options  
override any mount options specified on the command line
or in the master map.
.IP \(bu 4
.I Location
is the location of the resource being mounted, specified as:
.I server:pathname.  
Multiple 
.I location
fields can be specified, in which case 
.PN automount
sends multiple mount requests and mounts from the first server to 
respond.
.ne 6
.SS "\fIIndirect Maps"
Indirect maps have the same format as direct maps.
The only difference between a direct and an indirect map is that the key
in a direct map is a full pathname, whereas the key in an indirect
map is a simple name that does not begin with a slash.  (Remember that
the indirect map as a whole has been associated with a directory
specified in the master map or on the command line.  The entries in an
indirect map list subdirectories that are individually mounted within
the directory associated with the map.)
.\" 
.\" (the next section is commented out from the original version
.\"  of this manpage due to the fact that it seemed curiously misleading
.\"
.\".PP
.\" The maps contain entries in the following format.  While multiple locations
.\" for a particular \fIbasename\fR can be specified, they
.\"should only be used for read-only file systems.
.\".EX
.\"[\fIbasename\fR [\fI\-mount-options\fR][\fIlocation1\fR][\fIlocation2\fR]...
.\".EE
.\"The \fIbasename\fR field specifies a subdirectory within the 
.\".I directory
.\"designated in the 
.\".PN automount 
.\"command line.  
.\"The \fI\-mount-options\fR tell the 
.\".PN automount 
.\"program what parameters and access restrictions apply to that mount.  
.\"See mount(8nfs) for more information.
.\".PP
.\"Each \fIlocation\fR field indicates where the file system resides on
.\"the remote host, and has the following format:
.\"Maps are considered either direct or indirect depending
.\"on how the \fIbasename\fR field is specified.
.\"In a direct map the \fIbasename\fR is a full pathname.
.\"In an indirect map the \fIbasename\fR is a simple name.  
.\"The rest of the required information about where the remote file system
.\"is located is provided either on the command line or in another map.
.\"The rest of the information that 
.\".PN automount
.\"requires about
.\"the remote file system location is provided either on the command line
.\"or in another map.
.\".EX
.\"\fIhost:remote-pathname[:subdirectory]
.\".EE
.\"The \fIhost\fR field specifies the remote host from which
.\"to mount the designated file system.  The \fIremote-pathname\fR is 
.\"the absolute pathname of a file system or subtree of a file system that
.\"is exported by \fIhost\fR.  
.\".PP
.\"If you specify more than one location for a file system, the 
.\".PN automount 
.\"program broadcasts a mount request to all specified hosts.
.\"The first to respond gets mounted.
.\".PP
.\"The \fIsubdirectory\fR field is optional.
.\"When supplied, it indicates the subdirectory within the 
.\"remote file system to which you want \fIbasename\fR linked.  
.\"Specifying subdirectories allows mount points to be shared.
.\"Rather than creating a symbolic link directly to the mount point,
.\".PN automount
.\"creates a symbolic link to the specified subdirectory.  One 
.\"mount point can have multiple symbolic links to subdirectories
.\"within the mounted file system.
.ne 6
.SS "\fISpecial Maps"
The 
.PN \-hosts
map is a special 
.PN automount 
map that is used to access all directories
exported by a server to a client.  
.PP
The following command allows a client to access directories 
that are exported from any host in its
.PN /etc/hosts
file, the Yellow Pages hosts database, or the BIND database.
.EX 
# \f(CBautomount /net \-hosts\f(CW
.EE
.NXR "automount maps" "and Yellow Pages"
.PP
For example, suppose that 
.PN hera 
and 
.PN sheba 
are both hosts on a
local area network that is running Yellow Pages.
If the 
.PN /etc/rc.local
file on 
.PN hera
contains the command 
.PN "automount /net \-hosts" ,
then users on 
.PN hera 
can access any directories that 
.PN sheba 
exports to 
.PN hera .
All of the exported directories are mounted under
.PN /net/sheba 
on 
.PN hera .
.PP
The 
.PN \-null
map, when indicated on the command line, cancels the map associated with
the directory indicated.  It can be used to cancel a map specified in the
master map.  For example, invoking the
.PN automount
command in the following manner causes the 
.PN /net
entry in 
.PN auto.master
to be ignored:
.EX
# \f(CBautomount /net \-null\f(CW
.EE
.SS Pattern Matching
The ampersand (&)
is expanded into the key field in 
a map wherever it appears.  In the following example, 
the ampersand (&) expands to
.PN oak :
.EX
        #key      mount_options	     location
        #
        oak                           &:/export/&
.EE
.PP
The asterisk (*), when supplied as the key field, is recognized as the
catch-all entry.  It is used to substitute for lines that are all 
formatted similarly. 
Any entry following the asterisk is ignored.  
In the following example, the
.PN automount 
program uses the asterisk to match any hostname other than 
.PN oak :
.EX
	#key         mount_options        location
	#
	oak                               &:/export/&
	*                                 &:/home/&
.EE
.SS Environment Variables
The value of an environment variable can be used within an automount map
by prefixing a dollar sign ($)
to its name.  You can also use braces to delimit the name of the
variable from appended letters or digits.  The environment variables
can be inherited from the environment or can be explicitly defined with
the 
.PN \-D 
command line option.
.SS Hierarchical Mounts
You can mount different directories within an 
.PN automount
file system hierarchy from different servers.  For example,
if you are mounting the 
.PN /usr/local
file system on your machine, you can mount the various 
subdirectories within 
.PN /usr/local
from different servers.
.PP
In the following example, the directories
.PN /usr/local ,
.PN /usr/local/bin ,
.PN /usr/local/src ,
and
.PN /usr/local/tools
are mounted from the machines host1, host2, host3, and host4
respectively.  When the root of the hierarchy is referenced,
the
.PN automount
program mounts the whole hierarchy.
.PP
.EX

/usr/local\\
		/         -ro       host1:/usr/local \\
		/bin      -ro       host2:/usr/local/bin \\
		/src      -ro       host2:/usr/local/src \\
		/tools    -ro       host2:/usr/src/tools
.EE
.PP
Readability has been improved by splitting the entry into five
lines and indenting the continuation lines.
.SH Options
.NXR "automount command" "options"
.IP \-m 10 
Ignores directory-mapname pairs listed in the
.PN /etc/auto.master 
Yellow Pages database.
.IP \-n 10 
Disables dynamic mounts.  Lookups intercepted by the 
.PN automount
daemon succeed when the target file system has been previously 
mounted.
.IP \-T 10 
Traces all NFS requests received by the daemon.  Information about
the details of the request are expanded and sent to standard output.
.IP \-v 10 
Logs status messages to the console.  (Stands for ``verbose.'')
.IP "\-D \fIname\fR=\fIvalue\fR" 10 
Defines an 
.PN automount
environment variable by assigning
.I value
to the 
variable. 
.\".I  name
.\"and assigns it the value
.\".I value
.\"to be used in 
.\".PN automount 
.\"maps.
.IP "\-f \fImaster-file\fR" 10 
Uses \fImaster-file\fR 
for a list of initial directory to mapname pairs, ahead of the 
.PN auto.master 
Yellow Pages map.  If an entry exists in both
.I master-file
and
.PN auto.master ,
that specified in 
.I master-file
is used since it is read first.  Similarly, entries on the
command line take precedence over 
.I master-file
entries.  This technique can be used to replace entries in 
global maps with your own.
.IP "\-M \fImount-directory\fR" 10 
Uses 
.I mount-directory 
instead of the default,
.PN /tmp_mnt .
.IP "\-tl \fIduration\fR" 10
Specifies a
.I duration
in seconds, that a file system is to remain mounted when not in use.
The default is 5 minutes.
.IP "\-tm \fIinterval\fR" 10
Specifies an
.I interval
in seconds, between attempts to mount a file system. The default
is 30 seconds.
.IP "\-tw \fIinterval\fR" 10
Specifies an   
.I interval
in seconds, between attempts to unmount file systems that have exceeded
their cached times. The default is 1 minute.
.\".IP "-t \fIsub-options\fR" 10
.\"Specify the NFS mount options.  All mount options 
.\"apply except background
.\".PN (bg) 
.\"and foreground (
.\".PN (fg).
.\".IP "\fIdirectory\fR" 10  
.\"Specifies the mount point for
.\".PN automount
.\"itself.  
.\".I Directory
.\"is an absolute pathname starting with a slash ( / ).  If the
.\"directory does not exist, it is created by the 
.\".PN automount
.\"daemon and is removed when the daemon exits.
.\".IP "\fImapname\fR" 10 
.\"Specifies the name of the map file that 
.\".PN automount 
.\"is searching for.  The
.\".PN automount 
.\"command first searches locally for a file called 
.\".I mapname.
.\"If the file does not exist, 
.\".PN automount 
.\"looks for a Yellow Pages map called
.\".I mapname.
.IP \fI\-mount_options\fR 10 
Specifies the mount options to be applied to all of the directories listed
in 
.I mapname.  
If mount options are listed in the specified map, they take precedence
over these options.
.NT
Sending the SIGTERM signal to the 
.PN automount
daemon causes it to unmount all file systems that it has 
mounted, and to exit.
.sp
Sending the SIGHUP signal to the 
.PN automount
daemon causes it to reread the system mount table to update its internal
record of currently mounted file systems.  If a file system mounted
with
.PN automount
is unmounted by a 
.PN umount
command, 
.PN automount
should be forced to reread the system mount table.
.NE
.SH Restrictions
Shell filename expansion does not apply to objects not currently
mounted.
.PP
Because 
.PN automount
is single-threaded, any request that is delayed by a slow or
non-responding NFS server will delay all subsequent 
.PN automount
requests
until the delayed request has been completed.
.SH Examples
The following is a sample
.PN auto.master
map:
.EX 
#
# mount-point           mapname           mount-options
#
/net                    -hosts		
/home                   auto.indirect     -rw
/-                      auto.direct       -ro,intr
.EE
The following is a typical 
.PN automount 
indirect map: 
.EX
#
# key               mount-options         location
#
john                                      merge:/home/merge/john
mary                                      stripe:/home/stripe/mary
fred                                      blur:/usr/staff/fred
.EE
The following is a typical 
.PN automount 
direct map: 
.EX
#
# key               mount-options         location
#
/usr/source         -ro                   merge:/usr/src/proto
/usr/local                                blur:/usr/bin/tools
.EE
The following is a sample indirect map that specifies multiple
mount locations for the file system
.PN reference .
The file system is mounted from the first server to respond to 
the
.PN mount 
request. 
.EX
reference           \-ro            earl:/usr/src/ref\\
                                   fern:/usr/staff/ron/ref\\
                                   irv:/usr/backup/reference
.EE
.SH Files
.TP 15
.PN /tmp_mnt
Directory where automounted file systems reside
.SH See Also
mount(8), mount(8nfs), umount(8)
.br
\fIGuide to the Network File System\fP
