.\" SCCSID: @(#)bindsetup.8	8.2	12/3/90
.\"
.TH bindsetup 8
.SH Name
bindsetup \- set up the Berkeley Internet Name Domain (BIND)/Hesiod service
.SH Syntax
.B /usr/etc/bindsetup
[
.B \-c
[
.B \-d
\fIdirectory\fR
]
.B \-b
\fIbinddomain  name1,IP1 name2,IP2 ...\fR
]
.SH Description
.NXR "bindsetup command"
.NXR "BIND environment" "setting up"
The
.PN bindsetup 
command sets up the Berkeley Internet Name Domain (BIND)/Hesiod
service on your system and places 
.PN aliases , 
.PN auth , 
.PN group , 
.PN hosts , 
.PN networks ,
.PN passwd , 
.PN protocols , 
.PN rpc , 
and 
.PN services
resolution under BIND/Hesiod control.
You can use this command to set up your system as a primary,
secondary, slave, or caching server,
or as a client.
.PP
In order to run BIND/Hesiod, your system's host name must
include the BIND domain name.  The BIND host name consists
of the local host name plus the BIND domain name, separated by
periods.  For example, the BIND host name for a system whose
local host name is 
.PN orange ,
and whose BIND domain name is 
.PN col.ecd.com 
is 
.PN orange.col.ecd.com .
.PP
The 
.PN bindsetup
command edits the 
.PN /etc/hosts
and
.PN /etc/rc.local
files and changes the local host name to the BIND host name, if it is not
there already.
.PP
If the 
.PN bindsetup
command changes your system's host name, you
should reboot the system to be sure that the change is propagated throughout
the system.
.PP
Before you run
.PN bindsetup
, your system must be established on a local area network.
In addition,
you must know the BIND domain name for your local area network, and
whether your system will be a primary, secondary, slave,
or caching server, or a client.
.PP
The
.PN bindsetup
command asks if you want to run a Kerberos authentication
server. You must already have set up Kerberos to do do.
For more information, see the \fIGuide to Kerberos\fR.
.PP
You should run the
.PN bindsetup
command as superuser and with the system in multiuser mode.
.PP
If you use the
.PN \-c
option with the respective arguments,
the
.PN bindsetup
command sets up your system as a BIND/Hesiod client non-interactively.
.PP
If you run the
.PN bindsetup
command with no arguments,
a menu is displayed giving you a choice of responses.
You are then prompted for further information.
Before
.PN bindsetup
exits,
it lists the files that have been updated.
.PP
Once BIND/Hesiod is installed on a machine, it cannot be used until
the 
.PN /etc/svc.conf 
file is modified to contain BIND entries on the desired database
lines.  The 
.PN bindsetup
command reminds a user to run
.PN /usr/etc/svcsetup
or edit the
.PN /etc/svc.conf
file manually.
.SH Options
.NXR "bindsetup command" "options"
.IP \-c 13
Sets up your system as a BIND/Hesiod client according to the
following arguments you supply on the command line:
.IP "\-d   \fIdirectory\fR" 13
This option and argument are required if you are setting up a diskless client
from the diskless server.
The
\fIdirectory\fR
is the full path name of the root directory for your system (a
diskless client)
on the diskless server.
The following is an example of a root directory for a diskless client named
.PN orange: 
.EX
/dlclient0/orange.root 
.EE
.IP "\-b   \fIbinddomain\fR" 13
This is the name of the BIND domain on which your system will be
a BIND client.
For example, 
.PN cities.us 
is a sample BIND domain name.
.IP "\fIname,IP\fR" 13
This is the host name and the IP address of the BIND server on the domain,
for example
.PN foobar,128.11.22.33 .
You can specify one or more BIND server by listing more \fIname,IP\fP
arguments, each 
separated by a space.
.SH Files
.TP 20
.PN /etc/hosts 
List of locally maintained host names and IP addresses
.TP 20
.PN /etc/rc.local 
Startup commands pertinent to a specific system
.TP 20
.PN /etc/svc.conf 
Database name with the selected naming services
.TP 20
.PN /etc/hesiod.conf 
Hesiod configuration file
.TP 20
.PN /etc/kerb.conf
List of Kerberos servers
.PP
Default BIND Files:
.PP
.TP 20
.PN /var/dss/namedb 
BIND server data file directory
.TP 20
.PN /var/dss/namedb/named.boot 
BIND server boot file
.TP 20
.PN /var/dss/namedb/named.ca 
BIND server cache file
.TP 20
.PN /var/dss/namedb/named.local 
BIND server local host reverse address host file
.TP 20
.PN /var/dss/namedb/hosts.db 
BIND primary server hosts file
.TP 20
.PN /var/dss/namedb/hosts.rev 
BIND primary server reverse address hosts file
.TP 20
.PN /etc/resolv.conf 
BIND data file
.SH See Also
nslookup(1), hesiod(3), 
hesiod.conf(5), svc.conf(5), svcsetup(8), 
named(8), krb.conf(5), resolv.conf(5)
.br
\fIGuide to the BIND/Hesiod Service\fR
.br
\fIGuide to Kerberos\fR
