.\" SCCSID: @(#)ccr.8	8.1	9/11/90
.TH ccr 8
.SH Name
ccr \- remote console carrier requester
.SH Syntax
.B ccr 
[
.I options
]
.I node
.SH Description
.NXB "ccr command"
.NXB "console carrier requester" "establishing remote connection"
The 
.PN ccr
command establishes a logical connection between
your ULTRIX system and the console carrier server on a
remote system.
.PN ccr 
enables your terminal to act as the console for a
remote unattended system.  For example, your terminal can act as
the console for a Digital Ethernet Communications Server (DECSA)
and its resident software.
The
.I node 
is the name or address of the target node.  A node name
consists of from one to six alphanumeric characters.
A node address consist of two decimal integers (n.n), 
where the first indicates the network number (1-63), 
and the second indicates the node address (1-1023).
.PP
You can use 
.PN ccr
to force a crash if a server node becomes unresponsive.  To
determine how to force a crash, see the documentation for 
the respective server product. 
.PP
The requirements for using 
.PN ccr 
are as follows:
.PP
.IP \(bu 4
The host node (that is, your local ULTRIX node) and
the remote node must be on the same Ethernet.
.IP \(bu 4
If your server product is a 
DECSA, the console carrier server image (plutocc.sys) 
and its loader file (plutowl.sys) must be located in 
.PN /usr/lib/dnet 
on your ULTRIX node. The pluocc.sys and plutowl.sys
files are not need, nor is any loading done for other servers.
For more details, see the installation
guide for the particular server product.
.RE
.PP
<CTRL/D> exits from console carrier mode and terminates 
.PN ccr .
.SH Options
.NXR "ccr command" "options"
.TP 5
.B \-c  
Uses the specified circuit to connect to the target node.
.TP 5
.B \-h
Uses the specified address (next argument) as the Ethernet
address of the target node.
.TP 5
.B \-n   
Uses the next argument as the target node ID.
.TP 5
.B \-p
Uses the specified service password (next arguments)
in accessing the target node.
.SH Examples
.EX
# /etc/ccr \-c qna\-0 \-n dallas <RET>
ccr: Remote console reserved
	.
	.
	.
<CTRL/D> 
ccr: Remote console released
#
.EE
.SH Restrictions
.NXR "ccr command" "restricted"
You must have superuser privileges to run 
.PN ccr .
.SH Diagnostics
.NXR "ccr command" "diagnostics"
The
.PN ccr
command can return the following diagnostic messages:
.PP
.B "ccr: Remote console reserved"
.br
The
.PN ccr 
command
has successfully connected to the remote console server and your 
terminal is now capable of acting as a console for the remote node.
.PP
.B "ccr: Remote console released"
.br
Your connection with the remote console server has been terminated and 
you are no longer in console carrier mode.
.PP
.B "ccr: Remote console already in use"
.br
The remote console server that you are attempting to connect to is 
already reserved by another user.
.PP
.B "ccr: Permission denied"
.br
You do not have the necessary privileges to run 
.PN ccr.  
(You must be a superuser.)
.PP
.B "ccr: Hardware address required"
.br
The
.PN ccr 
command
is unable to locate the hardware address of the remote node to which 
you are attempting to connect.  A remote node's hardware address must 
be defined either in the 
.PN ccr 
command line, or in its nodes database entry.  (Nodes database entries 
are defined with the 
.PN addnode 
command.)
.PP
.B "ccr: No node entry in database"
.br
The 
.PN ccr 
command does not recognize the remote node to which you are 
attempting to connect, since the 
.I node-id 
that you specified is not defined in the nodes database.
(Nodes database entries are defined with the 
.PN addnode 
command.)
.SH Files
.TP 22
.PN/usr/lib/dnet/plutocc.sys 
Console carrier server image
.TP
.PN /usr/lib/dnet/plutowl.sys 
Console carrier server loader
.SH See Also
addnode(8), getnode(8), load(8), remnode(8), trigger(8) 
.br
.I "Guide to Local Transport Servers"
.NXE "ccr command"
.NXE "console carrier requester" "establishing remote connection"
