.\" SCCSID: @(#)chown.8	8.2	3/14/91
.TH chown 8
.SH Name
chown \- change owner and, optionally, group
.SH Syntax
.B /etc/chown
[
.B \-fR
]
.IR owner [. group ] 
.IR file ...
.SH Description
.NX R "chown command"
.NX R "file" "changing owner"
The
.PN chown
command changes the owner and, optionally, group for one or more files
and directories.  The value for
.I file
can be a full or partial path.  The value for 
.I owner 
can be either a decimal UID or a login name found in the password file.
The value for 
.I group 
can be either a decimal GID or a group name found in the group file.  
.PP
Only the superuser can change the ownership of a file.  The superuser
can also change the group of a file.  The owner of a file can only
change the 
.I group, 
but the owner must be a member of any group specified.
.SH Options
.IP \-f 5
Inhibits display of errors that are returned when 
.PN chown
cannot change the owner or group of the specified files.
.IP \-R
Causes 
.PN chown
to recursively descend any directories subordinate to
.I file
and to set the owner, group, or both for each file encountered.  When
symbolic links are encountered, 
.PN chown
changes the owner and group for the link file itself but does not
traverse the path associated with the link.  The 
.PN \-R
option is useful only when
.I file
is a directory that is not empty.
.SH Examples
Change the owner of 
.PN myfile 
to ecbell:
.EX
/etc/chown ecbell myfile
.EE
.PP
Change the owner of 
.PN myfile 
to craig and group of 
.PN myfile 
to admin:
.EX
/etc/chown craig.admin myfile
.EE
.PP
Change the owner to richart and group to eng for the directories
.PN projecta 
and 
.PN projectb 
and for all files and directories on any levels subordinate to 
.PN projecta
and 
.PN projectb :
.EX
/etc/chown \-R richart.eng projecta projectb
.EE
.SH Files
.TP 15
.PN /etc/passwd
.TP 15
.PN /etc/group
.TP 15
.PN /etc/yp/src/passwd
.TP 15
.PN /etc/yp/src/group
.SH See Also
chgrp(1), chown(2), group(5), group(5yp), passwd(5), passwd(5yp)
