.\" SCCSID: @(#)config.8	8.2	10/18/90
.TH config 8 VAX
.SH Name
config \- build system configuration files
.SH Syntax
.B /etc/config
[\fB\-p\fR]
[\fB\-s\fR]
.I config_file
.SH Description
.NXR "config program"
.NXR "configuration file (syslog)" "building"
The
.PN config
command builds a set of system configuration files
from a short file that describes
the sort of system that is being configured.  
It also takes as input a file that tells
.PN config
what files are needed to generate a system.
This can be augmented by a configuration specific set of files
that give alternate files for a specific machine.
(See the Files section.)
If the
.B \-p
option is supplied, 
.PN config
will configure a system for profiling.  You must have sources 
to use the \fB\-p\fR option.  Use the \fB\-s\fR option when
building a kernel from sources. For further information,
see 
.MS kgmon 8
and
.MS gprof 1 .
.PP
The
.PN config
command should be run from the
.PN conf
subdirectory of the system source (usually 
.PN /sys/conf
).
The
.PN config
command assumes that there is already a directory 
.PN \&.\&./config_file
created and it places all its output files in there.  
The output of
.PN config
consists of a number files:
.PN ioconf.c 
contains a description
of what I/O devices are attached to the system,
.PN ubglue.s 
contains a set of interrupt service routines for devices
attached to the UNIBUS, and
.PN makefile
is a file used by 
.MS make 1
in building the system; a set of header files which contain
the number of various devices that will be compiled into the system;
and a set of swap configuration files which contain definitions for
the disk areas to be used for swapping, the root file system,
argument processing, and system dumps.
.PP
After running
.PN config ,
it is necessary to run 
.PN make depend
in the directory where the new makefile
was created.
The
.PN config
command reminds you of this when it completes.
.PP
If you get any other error messages from
.PN config ,
you should fix the problems in your configuration file and try again.
If you try to compile a system that had configuration errors, you
will likely meet with failure.
.SH Restrictions
The line numbers reported in error messages are usually off by one.
.SH Files
.TP 20
.PN /sys/conf/makefile.vax
Generic makefile for the VAX
.TP
.PN /sys/conf/files
List of common files system is built from
.TP
.PN /sys/conf/files.vax
List of VAX specific files
.TP
.PN /sys/conf/devices.vax   
Name to major device mapping file for the VAX
.TP
.PN /sys/conf/files.ERNIE   
List of files specific to ERNIE system
.TP
.PN /sys/conf/filesystems   
List of known file systems
.SH See Also
The Syntax portion of each device in Section 4.
.br
.I "ULTRIX Supplementary Documents, Volume 3: System Manager" 
