.TH conflict 8mh
.SH Name
conflict \- search for alias/password conflicts
.SH Syntax
.B /usr/lib/mh/conflict
[
.B \-help
] [
.B \-mail
.I name
] [
.B \-search
.I directory
] [
.I "aliasfiles ..."
]
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Description
.NXR "conflicts" "aliases"
.NXR "conflicts" "passwords"
.NXR "aliases" "conflicts"  
.NXR "passwords" "conflicts"  
The 
.PN conflict
program checks to see if the interface between MH
and transport system is in good shape.
It also checks for maildrops in 
.PN /usr/spool/mail 
which do not belong to a valid user.
It assumes that no user name will start with a dot (.)
and thus ignores files in 
.PN /usr/spool/mail 
which begin with a dot.
.PP
The 
.PN conflict 
program checks the entries in the specified alias files.
It parses the entries in the same way that
.PN post
would, and outputs any errors which it finds.
The program can be used to check the entries in a user's
personal alias file, or in the system alias file,
.PN /usr/lib/mh/MailAliases .
If no alias file is specified, 
.PN conflict
checks the system alias file.
.PP
The
.PN conflict
program also checks the
.PN /etc/group
file for entries which do not belong to a valid user,
and for users who do not have a valid group number.
In addition, duplicate users and groups are noted.
.PP
The 
.PN conflict
program
should be run under  
.PN cron ,
or whenever system accounting takes place.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Options
.IP "\-help" 10
Prints a list of the valid options to this command.
.\"
.IP "\-mail \fIname\fB"
Mails the results to the specified \fIname\fR.
Otherwise, the results are sent to the standard output.
.\"
.IP "\-search \fIdirectory\fB"
Searches directories other than 
.PN /usr/spool/mail ,
and reports anomalies in those directories.
The 
.B \-search
switch can appear more than once in an invocation to 
.PN conflict ,
with different directories named.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Files
.TP 10
.PN /usr/lib/mh/mtstailor
The system customization file.
.TP 10
.PN /etc/passwd
The system password file.
.TP 10
.PN /etc/group
The system group file.
.TP 10
.PN /usr/bin/mh/mhmail
Program used to mail results, if the
.B \-mail
option is used.
.TP 10
.PN /usr/spool/mail
Directory containing users' maildrops.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH See Also
mh-alias(5mh), cron(8)
