.\" SCCSID: @(#)crash.8v	8.1	9/11/90
.TH crash 8v VAX
.SH Name
crash \- what happens when the system crashes
.SH Description
.NXR "crash keyword"
.NXR "system crash"
This section explains what happens when the system crashes and shows
how to analyze crash dumps.
.PP
When the system crashes voluntarily it prints a message
on the console in the form:
.IP
panic: explanation
.PP
The system takes a dump on a mass storage peripheral device,
and then invokes an automatic reboot procedure as
described in
.MS reboot 8 .
Unless there is some unexpected inconsistency in the state
of the file systems due to hardware or software failure, the system
then resumes multi-user operations.
If auto-reboot is disabled on the front panel of the machine, 
the system halts at this point.
.PP
The system has a large number of internal consistency checks; if one
of these fails, it prints a short message indicating
which one failed.
.PP
The most common cause of system failures is hardware failure.  
In all cases there is the possibility that hardware or software
error produced the message in some unexpected way.  These 
messages are the ones you are likely to encounter: 
.NXR "system crash" "error messages"
.TP
.B IO err in push
.ns
.TP
.B hard IO err in swap
The system encountered an error when trying to write
to the paging device
or an error in reading critical information from a disk drive.
Fix your disk if it is broken or unreliable.
.TP
.B timeout table overflow
.ns
Due to the current data structure, 
running out of entries causes a crash.
If this happens, make the timeout table bigger.
.TP
.B KSP not valid
.ns
.TP
.B SBI fault
.ns
.TP
.B CHM? in kernel
.ns
These indicate either a problem in the system or failing hardware.
If SBI faults recur, check out the hardware or call
field service.  Run the processor microdiagnostics to 
determine if the problem is caused by an unreliable processor.
.TP
.B machine check %x:
.I description
.ns
.TP
.I \0\0\0machine dependent machine-check information
.ns
Call field service.
.TP
.B trap type %d, code=%d, pc=%x
An unexpected trap has occurred within the system; the trap types are:
.sp
.nf
0	reserved addressing fault
1	privileged instruction fault
2	reserved operand fault
3	bpt instruction fault
4	xfc instruction fault
5	system call trap
6	arithmetic trap
7	ast delivery trap
8	segmentation fault
9	protection fault
10	trace trap
11	compatibility mode fault
12	page fault
13	page table fault
.fi
.sp
The most common traps in system crashes are trap types 8 and 9,
indicating
a wild reference.  The code is the referenced address, and the pc at the
time of the fault is printed.  These problems tend to be easy to track
down if they are kernel problems because the processor stops, but there
are random occurrences with unpredictable causes.
.TP
.B init died
The system initialization process has exited.  The only solution is the
automatic reboot procedure described in
.MS reboot 8 . 
Until this is done, no new users can log in.
.PP
When the system crashes, it attempts to write 
an image of memory into the back end of the primary swap
area.  After the system is rebooted, the program
.MS savecore 8
runs and preserves a copy of this core image and the current
system in a specified directory for later access.  See
.MS savecore 8
for details.
.PP
To analyze a dump, you should begin by running
.MS adb 1
with the 
.PN \-k
flag on the core dump.
.NXR "crash dump" "analyzing"
Normally, the command
.PN *(intstack-4)$c
provides a stack trace from the point of
the crash and this should provide a clue as to
what went wrong.
.SH See Also
adb(1), reboot(8), savecore(8)
