.TH crash 8
.SH Name
crash \- examine system images
.SH Syntax
.B /usr/bin/crash
[ \fIsystem\fR ] [ \fInamelist\fR ]
.SH Description
.NXR "crash utility"
The
.PN crash
utility is an interactive program that lets you examine the 
core image of the operating system.  This utility has 
facilities for interpreting
and formatting the various control structures
in the system and certain miscellaneous
functions that are useful when perusing a dump.
.PP
The arguments to the
.PN crash
utility are the file name where the
.I system
image
can be found and
a
.I namelist
file to be used
for symbol values.
.PP
The default values are
.PN /dev/mem
and
.PN /vmunix ;
hence, the
.PN crash
utility specified without arguments can be used to examine an
active system.
If a
.I system
image file is given,
it is assumed to be a system core dump and
the default process is set to be that of the
process running at the time
of the crash.
This is determined by a value
stored in a fixed location
by the dump mechanism.
.SS Commands
Use the following input to the 
.PN crash 
utility:
.PP
.B command 
[ \fIoptions\fR ] [ \fIstructures\fR ]
.PP
If used, 
.I options
modify the format of the printout.
If a specific structure element is not specified,
all valid entries are used.  For example,
.B "proc 12 15 3"
prints only process table slots
12, 15, and 3,
but
.B proc
prints the entire process table
in standard format.
.PP
In general, those commands that perform 
\s-1I\s+1/\s-1O\s+1
with addresses assume
hexadecimal on 32-bit
machines and octal on 16-bit machines.
.PP
The commands include the following:
.TP
\fBuser\fR [ \fIprocess table entry\fR ] [ *\fIproc address\fR ] [ #\fIpid\fR ]
Aliases:
.PN uarea ,
.PN u_area ,
.PN u .
.br
Prints the user structure of the named process
as determined by the information contained in the process table entry.
If an entry number is not given, the information from the last 
executing process is printed.
Swapped processes produce an error message since their uareas are swapped.
.TP 
\fBufile\fR [ \fIprocess table entry\fR ] [ *\fIproc address\fR ] [ #\fIpid\fR ]
Prints the open file table for the given process.
.TP 
\fBtrace\fR  [ \- ] [ \fIprocess table entry\fR ] [ *\fIproc address\fR ] [ #\fIpid\fR ]
Aliases:
.PN t .
.br
Generates a kernel stack trace of a process.
The process is either a process slot number, an address of process slot, or
the running process.
If the process is not running, the trace begins at the 
.PN pcb .
If an entry number is not given, the information from the last executing process
will be printed.  It is not possible to trace the executing process on a
running system.
Using the \- flag allows the registers and variables for each stack frame
to be dumped.
.TP 
\fBstack\fP [ \fIprocess table entry\fR ] [ *\fIproc address\fR ] [ #\fIpid\fR ]
Aliases :
.PN s ,
.PN stk .
.br
Generates a kernel stack dump of a process.  This is an unformatted display
of the kernel stack.  
.TP
\fBproc\fP [ \fB\-r\fP] [ \fIprocess table entry\fR ] [ *\fIproc address\fR ] [ #\fIpid\fR ]
Aliases:
.PN p .
.br
Formats the process table.
The
.B \-r
option causes only runnable processes to be printed.
.TP
\fBproclock\fP [ \fB\-r\fP] [ \fIprocess table entry\fR ] [ *\fIproc address\fR ] [ #\fIpid\fR ] 
Shows the SMP sleep locks held by a non-running process.  Same optional
arguments as \fBproc\fP.
.TP
\fBpcb\fP [ \fIprocess table entry\fR ] [ *\fIproc address\fR ] [ #\fIpid\fR ]
Prints the process control block of the current process.
The process control block is a part of the user area
(\s-1VAX\s+1\&en only).
If no entry number is given, the information from the last executing process
will be printed.
.TP
\fBps\fP [ \fIprocess table entry\fR ] [ *\fIproc address\fR ] [ #\fIpid\fR ]
Prints the process slots, process id's, and process names for all
processes.
.TP
\fBpcb\fP [ \fIprocess table entry\fR ] [ *\fIproc address\fR ] [ #\fIpid\fR ]
Prints the process control block for the given process.
.TP
\fBppte\fP [ \fIprocess table entry\fR ] [ *\fIproc address\fR ] [ #\fIpid\fR ]
Prints the pte's associated with the given process.
.TP
\fBspt\fP
Dumps the system page table.
.TP 
\fBcmap\fP <\fIpage frame number\fR>
Prints the memory freelist or the cmap for the given PFN.
.TP
\fBcmap\fP \-i \fIindex\fR
Prints the core map for the given coremap index.
.TP
\fBcmap\fP \-h \fIindex\fR
Prints the core maps for the given hash starting at index.
.TP
\fBcmap\fP \-b \fIblock\fR
Prints the core maps hashed on the given block.
.TP
\fBcmap\fP \-a \fIat\fR
Prints the core map at the given address.
.TP
\fBgnode\fP [ \fB\-\fP ] [ \fIgnode table entries\fR ] [ *\fIgnode address\fR ]
Aliases:
.PN gno ,
.PN g .
.br
Formats the gnode table.
.TP
\fBgnode\fP \-maj <\fImajor number\fR>
Formats all gnodes with the given major number.
.TP
\fBgnode\fP \-min <\fIminor number\fR>
Formats all gnodes with the given minor number.
.TP
\fBgnode\fP \-fs <\fImount slot number\fR>
Formats all gnodes for a given file system slot.
.TP
\fBgnode\fP \-gno <\fIgnode number\fR>
Formats all gnodes with the given gnode number.
.TP
\fBgnode\fP \-uid <\fIuser id\fR>
Formats all gnodes owned by the given uid.
.TP
\fBgnode\fP \-gid <\fIgroup id\fR>
Formats all gnodes owned by the given gid.
.TP
\fBgnode\fP \-lmod <\fIfile permissions\fR>
Formats all gnodes with the given protection.  The command \fBgnode \-lmod 777\fP finds all gnodes that allow read/write/execute permission to every one.
.TP
\fBgnode\fP \-hmod <\fIfile type\fR>
Formats all gnodes with the given file type.  \fBgnode \-hmod 2\fP 
find all gnodes that are character special files.
.TP
\fBgnode\fP \-amod <\fIfile modesfR>
Formats all gnodes that match the given modes exactly.  The command
\fBgnode \-amod 20777\fP finds all gnodes for character devices that
allow read/write/execute permission to every one.
.TP
\fBgnode\fP \-all
Displays a more extensive list of the gnodes contents.
.TP
\fBgnode\fP \-lock
Shows the SMP lock contained in the gnode.
.TP
\fBgfree\fP
Prints the list of all inactive gnodes.
.TP
\fBblock\fP [ \fB\-\fP ] [ \fIgnode table entries\fR ] [ *\fIgnode address \fR]
Prints the gnode data block addresses.
.TP
\fBrnode\fP [ \fIgnode table entries\fR ] [ *\fIgnode address\fR ]
Alias:
.PN v .
.br
Prints the associated rnode values for gnodes that are remote (via NFS).
.TP
\fBfile\fP [ \fIfile table entries\fR ] [ *\fIfile address\fR ]
Alias:
.PN f .
.br
Formats the file table.
.TP
\fBcred\fP \fIaddress\fR
Prints the credentials at the given address.
.TP
\fBcrred\fP \fIaddress\fR
Verifies the references of a credential at the given address.
.TP
\fBcrcheck\fP
Verifies all references to all credentials.
.TP
\fBmount\fP [ \-s ] [ \fImount table entries\fR ] [ *\fImount address\fR ]
Aliases:
.PN mnt ,
.PN m .
.br
Formats the mount table.  The 
.PN \-s 
option gives a abbreviated format.
.TP
\fBfsdata\fP [ \fImount table entries\fR ] [ *\fImount address\fR ]
Alias:
.PN df .
.br
Prints the fsdata structure associated with a mount entry.
.TP
\fBmntinfo\fP [ \fImount table entries\fR ] [ *\fImount address\fR ]
Alias:
.PN mi .
.br
Prints the mntinfo data structure associate with an NFS file system.
.TP
\fBbuf\fP [ \- ] [ \fIbuffer headers\fR ] [ *\fIbuffer header address\fR ]
Aliases:
.PN hdr ,
.PN bufhdr .
.br
Formats the system buffer headers.  By using the \- option, 
all buffer headers (including ones marked invalid) are printed.
.TP
\fBbufgp\fP [ \fIgnode slots\fR ] [ *\fIgnode address\fR ] 
Alias:
.PN cache .
.br
Prints the buffer headers associated with the given gnode.
.TP
\fBbuflock\fP
Prints the buffer headers on the locked list.
.TP
\fBbuflru\fP
Prints the buffer headers on the lru list.
.TP
\fBbufage\fP
Prints the buffer headers on the aged list.
.TP
\fBbufempty\fP
Prints the buffer headers on the empty list.
.TP
\fBbuffer\fP [ \fIformat\fR ] [ \fIlist of buffers\fR ]
Alias:
.PN b .
.br
Prints the data in a system buffer
according to
.IR format .
If
.I format
is omitted, the previous
.I format
is used.
Valid formats include
.PN decimal ,
.PN octal ,
.PN hex ,
.PN character ,
.PN byte ,
.PN directory ,
.PN gnode ,
and
.PN write .
The last creates a file
in the current directory (see the Files section)
containing the buffer data.
.TP
\fBtext\fP [ \fItext table entries\fR ] [ *\fItext address\fR ]
Aliases:
.PN txt ,
.PN x .
.br
Formats the text table.
.TP
\fBftext\fP
Alias:
.PN freet .
.br
Prints the list of free texts.
.TP
.B callout
Aliases:
.PN calls ,
.PN call ,
.PN c ,
.PN timeout ,
.PN time ,
.PN tout .
.br
Prints all entries in the callout table.
.TP
\fBarp\fP [ \- ] [ \fIaddress\fR ]
Prints the arp table.  The \- option prints the entire table.
.TP
\fBsocket\fP [ \fIfile slot\fR ] [ *\fIfile address\fR ]
Prints the socket structure associated with the given file slot.
.TP
\fBtty\fP [ \- ] [ \fIprocess slot\fR ] [ *\fIproc address\fR ] [ #\fIpid\fR ]
Alias:
.PN term .
.br
Prints the terminal structure attached to a process.  The \- option allows
for the raw, cannonical, and output clists.
.TP
\fBtty \fR\-clist
Includes clists in display of the tty struct.
.TP
\fBtty \fR-addr \fIaddress\fR
Prints the contents of a tty structure at the
specified address.
.TP
\fBmap\fP [ \fImap names\fR ]
Formats the named system map structures.
.TP
\fBnm\fP [ \fIsymbols\fR ]
Prints the symbol value and type as found in the
.I namelist
file.
.TP
\fBts\fP [ \fItext addresses\fR ]
Finds the closest text symbols to the given addresses.
.TP
\fBds\fP [ \fIdata addresses\fR ]
Finds the closest data symbols to the given addresses.
.TP
\fBod\fP [ \fIsymbol name or address\fR ] [ \fIcount\fR ] [ \fIformat\fR ]
Aliases:
.PN dump ,
.PN rd .
.br
Dumps
.I count\^
data values
starting at the symbol value or address given
according to
.IR format .
Allowable formats are
.PN octal ,
.PN longoct ,
.PN decimal ,
.PN longdec ,
.PN character ,
.PN hex ,
or
.PN byte .
.TP
\fBdis\fP \fIaddress\fR [ \fIaddress\fR ]
Disassembles starting at the first address and continuing until the second
address.  These addresses may be symbolic (that is, syscall+33).  
.TP
\fBstat\fP 
Prints useful statistics pertaining to the buffer cache, dnlc, namei translation
cache, and others.
.TP
\fBdupreq\fP 
Displays the contents of the duplicate request cache.  This is useful in finding out the recent history of NFS requests made to the server.  
.TP
\fBmbuf\fP \fIaddress\fR
Displays the 
.PN mbuf 
chain starting at the given address.
.TP
\fBinpcb\fP \-udp \-tcp
Displays the 
.PN inpcb 
chain of the corresponding protocol, or both TCP and UDP
if no protocol is specified.
.TP
\fBclient\fP 
Displays the client table, which contains client handles used to 
initiate rpc requests.
.TP
\fBsync\fP 
Resynchronizes the proc, mount, gnode, buffer, file and other internal tables
up to the current state of 
.PN /dev/kmem .  
This command is useful for looking at changing values
in runing kernels. However, you should not use it when looking at
.PN vmcore
files.  
.TP
\fBsvcxprt\fP  \fIaddress\fR
Prints the svcxprt structure located at address.
.TP
\fBscs
Traverses data structures in the System Communications Services (SCS)
tree and displays the contents of the data structures.
.TP
\fBscs \fR-cb \fIaddress\fR
Displays the contents of an SCS connection block data structure at the
specified address.
.TP
\fBscs \fR-cib \fIaddress\fR
Displays the contents of an SCS connection information block data 
structure at the specified address.
.TP
\fBscs \fR-pb \fIaddress\fR
Displays the contents of an SCS path block data structure at the
specified address.
.TP
\fBscs \fR-pib \fIaddress\fR
Displays the contents of an SCS path information block data structure 
at the specified address.
.TP
\fBscs \fR-sb \fIaddress\fR
Displays the contents of an SCS system block data structure at the
specified address.
.TP
\fBscs \fR-sib \fIaddress\fR
Displays the contents of an SCS system information block data structure
at the specified address.
.TP
\fBscsi
Prints SCSI controller information.
.TP
\fBscsi \fR-target
Prints SCSI target information.
.TP
\fBscsi \fR-devtab
Prints SCSI devtab information.
.TP
\fBscsi \fR-trans
Prints SCSI transfer information.
.TP
\fBscsi \fR-cmd
Prints SCSI message or command data.
.TP
\fBscsi \fR-bbr
Prints SCSI Bad Block Replacement data.
.TP
\fBscsi \fR-error
Prints SCSI error information.
.TP
\fBscsi \fR-sii
Prints SCSI SII information.
.TP
\fBscsi \fR-dct
Prints SCSI DCT statistics.
.TP
\fBscsi \fR-spin
Prints SCSI SPIN statistics.
.TP
\fBscsi \fR-all
Prints all SCSIBUS information.
.TP
\fBlock\fP  [-all] \fIaddress\fR
Prints the SMP lock structure located at address.  The \f(CWall\fP flag
displays all global SMP locks.
.TP
\fBmscp
Traverses both the mscp disk and tape subsystems, and
prints the data structures for class blocks,
connection blocks, unit blocks, and active request
blocks.
.TP
\fBmscp \fR-disk
Traverses the mscp disk subsystem and prints the 
data structures for the mscp class block, mscp
connection blocks, mscp unit blocks, and active
request blocks.
.TP
\fBmscp \fR-tape
Traverses the tmscp tape subsystem and prints the 
data structures for the tmscp class block, tmscp
connection blocks, tmscp unit blocks, and active
request blocks.
.TP
\fBmscp \fR-config
Traverses both the mscp disk and tape subsystems, and
display the system configuration.  This is done by
printing summary information from the class,
connection, and unit blocks.
.TP
\fBmscp \fR-connb \fIaddress\fR
Prints the contents of an mscp connection block
at the specified address.
.TP
\fBmscp \fR-classb \fIaddress\fR
Prints the contents of an mscp class block
at the specified address.
.TP
\fBmscp \fR-unitb \fIaddress\fR
Prints the contents of an mscp unitb block
at the specified address.
.TP
\fBmscp \fR-reqb \fIaddress\fR
Prints the contents of an mscp request block
at the specified address.
.TP
\fBmscp \fR-dtable
Displays all the elements of the mscp disk unit table.
Unused elements of the array will be specified as NULL.
.TP
\fBmscp \fR-ttable
Displays all the elements of the tmscp tape unit table.
Unused elements of the array will be specified as NULL.
.TP
.B !
Escapes to the shell.
.TP
\fB#\fP[ \fIhistory\fR ]
Repeats the last command.  If a number is given (that is, \fB#5\fP), that
command number is re-executed.
.TP
\fB#h\fP
Alias:
.PN history ,
.br
Shows the history list.
.TP
.B q
Exits from
.PN crash .
.TP
.B ?
Prints a synopsis of commands.
.SS Aliases
There are built-in aliases for many of the
.I formats
as well as those listed for the commands.
Some of them are:
.PD 0
.RS
.TP 12
byte
b.
.TP
character
char, c.
.TP
decimal
dec, e.
.TP
directory
direct, dir, d.
.TP
hexadecimal
hexadec, hex, h, x.
.TP
gnode
gno ,
g.
.TP
longdec
ld, \s-1D\s+1.
.TP
longoct
lo, \s-1O\s+1.
.TP
octal
oct, o.
.TP
write
w.
.RE
.PD
.SH Restrictions
Many of the flags are abbreviated making them difficult
to interpret.  A source listing of the system header files
would be helpful when using the
.PN crash
utility.
.PP
Examing the stack of the current process on a
running system and procs running at the time of a crash
does not work.
.SH Files
.TP 22
.PN /usr/include/sys/\(**.h
Header files for table and structure info
.TP
.PN /dev/mem
Default system image file
.TP
.PN /vmunix
Default namelist file
.TP
.PN buf.#
Files created containing buffer data
.SH See Also
mount(8), nm(1), ps(1), sh(1), stty(1), pstat(8)
