.TH doconfig 8 VAX
.SH Name
doconfig \- a program to aid system configuration
.SH Syntax
\fB/etc/doconfig\fR 
[\fB\-c \fIconfig_file\fR] [\fB\-e \fIed_script\fR]
.SH Description
.NXR "doconfig program"
.NXA "config program" "doconfig program"
.NXA "doconfig program" "sizer program"
.NXR "configuration file (syslog)" "building"
The
.PN doconfig
shell script uses the 
.MS sizer 8
program to help the user generate a configuration file for a
new ULTRIX system kernel.  The script prompts the 
user for a system name and if the name does not already exist, builds a
system configuration file with that system name. 
.PP
Whether the configuration file is built or not, the script then puts
the user into an edit-configure-build loop until both the configuration
and the kernel build run without errors. 
Additional runs of
.PN doconfig
can be made to tune the configuration further.
.PP
When new hardware is added to a system, the configuration file
should be updated to reflect the new system configuration.  When updating 
an existing configuration file or creating a new configuration file with
.PN doconfig ,
the system must be operating the generic kernel, or new hardware may not be
found.  The following steps should be used for successful completion of
.PN doconfig :
.IP 1. 5
Save the running
.PN vmunix
as 
.PN vmunix.old .
.IP 2.
Move 
.PN genvmunix
to 
.PN vmunix .
.IP 3.
Reboot the system to single user mode.
.IP 4.
Check file systems. 
.IP 5.
Mount the 
.PN usr
file system.
.IP 6.
Run the
.PN doconfig
program.  (When execution is complete, make a note of 
the message
.PN doconfig
prints showing the path and location of the new
.PN vmunix .)
.IP 7.
Move
.PN /vmunix
to
.PN /genvmunix .
.IP 8.
Copy the new
.PN vmunix
(from the message noted above) to
.PN /vmunix .
.IP 9.
Reboot the system.
.SH Options
.TP
.B \-c
The name of the existing configuration file should be supplied without
specifying the pathname.  This file should exist in the
.PN /sys/conf/vax
\fRdirectory.
A new kernel will be built using the specified configuration file.
.TP
.B \-e 
When specified, the configuration file will be edited using the
.PN ed
script before building the new kernel.
.SH Files
.PN /tmp/\fISYSTEMNAME\fP
.br
.PN /sys/VAX/\fISYSTEMNAME\fP
.br
.PN /sys/conf/vax/\fISYSTEMNAME\fP
.SH See Also
ed(1), config(8), sizer(8) 
.br
.I "Basic Installation Guide"
.br
.I "Guide to System Configuration File Maintenance"
