.\" SCCSID: @(#)edauth.8	6.2	8/30/89
.TH edauth 8
.SH Name
edauth \- edit user auth entry
.SH Syntax
.B edauth
.IR username
.SH Description
.NXR "edauth editor"
.NXR "auth entry" "editing"
.NXA "adduser command" "edauth editor"
The
.PN edauth
command is an authorization editor.
.PN edauth
creates a temporary file 
with an ASCII representation of the current
.PN auth 
database entry for the user specified by
.I username
and then invokes
an editor on the file.  You can then modify the user's 
.PN auth 
fields.
Upon leaving the editor,
.PN edauth
reads the temporary file and modifies the binary
database to reflect the changes made.
If there are errors in the temporary file
.PN edauth
will allow the user to resume editing the file to fix them.
.PP
The editor invoked is 
.MS ed 1 ,
unless the environment variable EDITOR specifies otherwise.
Here is an example of the temporary file produced by 
.PN edauth :
.EX
uid = 268
password = MXP3BnKLEWW960BEJc9DbHb6
passlifemin = 1 hour
passlifemax = 60 days
passmod = 12/20/89 - 10:24:38
authmask = login,change_password,enter_password
fail_count = 0
audit_id = 268
audit_control = or
audit_syscalls = creat,unlink
audit_tevents = login:0:1
.EE
Each field of the 
.PN auth 
entry is represented as a keyword followed by an equals
sign.  The value part of the field may be an integer,
a string, a time specification,
a date, or a comma-separated list of value keywords.  The effect of
the field is described in
.MS auth 5 .
.PP
The
.PN uid ,
.PN fail_count ,
and
.PN audit_id
fields expect integer values.
.PP
The
.PN password
field is a string containing the encrypted password.  One way of disabling an
account is to set this to a non-empty string less than 24 characters in
length such as `nologin'.
.PP
The
.PN passlifemin
and
.PN passlifemax
fields specify the password expiration information. They may contain
an integer specifying seconds, or a combination of scaled values.
The units recognized for scaling are
.PN seconds ,
.PN minutes ,
.PN hours ,
and
.PN days .
Only the first letter of the unit need be supplied.  A
.PN passlifemax
of one day, one hour and five minutes could be specified as any of:
.EX
passlifemax = 1 day 1 hour 5 minutes
passlifemax = 25 h 5 m
passlifemax = 90300 seconds
passlifemax = 90300
.EE
in addition to other combinations.
.PP
The
.PN passmod
field is a date.
It is specified in the same format as the default output of the ULTRIX
.PN date(1)
command.  The time portion is optional and defaults to the
beginning of the day.
.PP
The
.PN authmask ,
.PN audit_syscalls ,
and
.PN audit_tevents
fields expect a comma-separated list of value tokens. For
.PN authmask
this is zero or more of
.PN login ,
.PN change_password ,
and
.PN enter_password .
For the audit information this corresponds to the name of the audit event.
See the
.PN auditmask(8)
manpage for more information on audit events.
.PP
The
.PN audit_control
field may be one of
.PN or ,
.PN and ,
or
.PN off .
See the
.PN audcntl(2)
manpage for more information on the affect of these values.
.SH Restrictions
Only the superuser can edit 
.PN auth 
entries.
.PP
Changing the 
.PN auth 
entry will not affect
the uid and audit information of existing login sessions.
.PP
If the uid field of the entry is changed the mapping to the
.PN /etc/passwd
file will be affected.  
Changes to the passwd file will probably be necessary.
.SH Diagnostics
Various messages about incorrect input. All are self-explanatory.
.SH Files
.TP 15
.PN /etc/auth.[dir,pag]
Contains all authorization information
.TP
.PN /etc/passwd
Maps usernames to UIDs
.SH See Also
audcntl(2), auth(5), auditmask(8), getauth(8), vipw(8)
.br
.I "Security Guide for Administrators"
