.TH fitset 8
.SH Name
fitset \- determine if subset fits on a system
.SH Syntax
.B fitset 
[
.B \-d
]
[
.I root-path
]
.SH Description
.NX R "setld" "subset fits on a system"
.NX R "kits" "subset fits on a system"
The
.PN fitset
utility is used to determine if the files in a software
subset will fit on a system.
.PP
Subset inventory records are
read from the standard input. For each record, the space required
to install
the file described in that record is deducted from the available
free space on the file system to which it would be installed.
Only currently mounted UFS file systems are used in the
computations. Space requirements for files already on the
disk will be modified to account for the size of the resident copy.
After all records have been read, the free space computed
for all file systems is checked. If the space required
to install the files would cause any file system to be more
than 90% full, 
.PN fitset 
returns an exit status of \-1.
.PP
The
.PN setld 
utility uses
.PN fitset
to size all subsets before attempting to install them.
The
.I root-path
argument is the pathname of the top directory for the hierarchy into
which the files are going to be installed. If no
.I root-path
is specified, the directory '/' is assumed.
.SH Options
.TP
.B \-d
Enable debugging. This will make
.PN fitset
print voluminous status information on standard output. This
information is the initial file system statistics, the
file system location of the file from each input record and
the statistics for the file system after the space required to
install the file has been deducted.
.SH Restrictions
NFS mounts are ignored. If software would be installed to
an NFS mounted directory, it is sized against the file system
containing the NFS mount point.
.PP
The program does not detect the use of symbolic links in
paths to
.I root-path
or any of the mount points. This can cause
.PN fitset
to size a subset incorrectly if
.I root-path
is a symbolic link or
a symbolic link exists in the path of any of the pathnames
used with the
.PN mount
command to mount local file systems.
.SH Examples
To determine if a particular subset will fit on the system,
redirect the contents of the subset inventory file into
.PN fitset . 
For example:
.EX
    fitset < /usr/etc/subsets/ULTUUCP400.inv
.EE
.PP
To determine if the same subset will fit in a hierarchy
rooted at 
.PN /var/tmp/root , 
the command would be:
.EX
    fitset /var/tmp/root < /usr/etc/subsets/ULTUUCP400.inv
.EE
.SH Diagnostics
.B "fitset: root path must be absolute"
.br
A relative pathname was specified for
.I root-path.
This path must be absolute.
.PP
.B "fitset: cannot stat"
.I root-path (error message)
.br
The
.I root-path
cannot be accessed. The error message provides more information.
.PP
.B fitset:
.I root-path
.B is not a directory.
.br
Either
.I root-path
is not a directory or it is a symbolic link to something
which is not a directory.
.SH Files
.TP 20
.PN /usr/etc/subsets/*.inv
Subset inventory files
.SH See Also
stl_inv(5), setld(8)
.br
.I "Guide to Preparing Software for Distribution on ULTRIX Systems"
