.\" SCCSID: @(#)fsx.8	8.1	9/11/90
.TH fsx 8 
.SH Name
fsx \- file system exerciser
.SH Syntax
.B /usr/field/fsx
[
.B \-h
] [
.BI \-o file
.B ] [
.BI \-t n
.B ] [
.BI \-f path
.B ] [
.BI \-p m
.B ] 
.SH Description
.NXR "fsx exerciser"
.NXR "file system" "testing"
The 
.PN fsx 
exerciser exercises a file system by spawning up to
250 (the default is 20) processes that create, open, write, close,
open, read, validate, close, and unlink a test file.  These test
files are created in 
.PN /usr/field 
(the default) unless the \fB\-f\fIpath\fR
option is used. The exerciser will run 
until 
.CT C
or \fBkill \-15\fI pid\fR is sent to the
process. 
.PP
A logfile is made in 
.PN /usr/field 
for you to examine 
and then remove. If there are errors in the logfile, make
sure you check the 
.PN /usr/adm/syserr/syserr.<hostname> 
file, because that is
where the driver and kernel error messages are saved.
.SH Options
.NXR "fsx exerciser" "options"
The 
.PN fsx
options are:
.IP \fB\-h\fR
Print the help messages for the 
.PN fsx 
command.
.IP \fB\-o\fIfile\fR
Save the output diagnostics in \fIfile\fR.
.IP \fB\-t\fIn\fR
Run time in minutes (\fIn\fR).  The default is to run
until
the process receives a
.CT C
or a \fBkill \-15 \fIpid\fR.
.IP \fB\-p\fIm\fR
Number (\fIm\fR) of 
.PN fsx 
processes to spawn. 
The maximum is 250; the default is 20.
.IP \fB\-f\fIpath\fR
Path name of directory on file system 
you wish to test.
For example, 
.PN /mnt 
or 
.PN /usr.  
The default is 
.PN /usr/field .
.SH Examples
.NXR "fsx exerciser" "examples"
The following example runs 10
.PN fsx
processes on 
.PN /mnt
until the process receives a
.CT C
or \fBkill \-15 \fIpid\fR:
.EX
% /usr/field/fsx \-p10 \-f/mnt
.EE
The following example runs 20
.PN fsx
processes on 
.PN /usr/field
for 120 minutes in the background:
.EX
% /usr/field/fsx \-t120 &
.EE
.SH Restrictions
.NXR "fsx exerciser" "restricted"
If there is a need to run a system exerciser over an NFS link or on a diskless
system there are some restrictions.  For exercisers that need to write into a file
system, such as 
.MS fsx 8 ,
the target file system must be writable by root.  Also the directory, in which any
of the exercisers are executed, must be writable by root because temporary
files are written into the current directory.  These latter restrictions are
sometimes difficult to overcome because often NFS file systems are mounted in a
way that prevents root from writing into them.  Some of the restrictions may be
overcome by copying the exerciser to another directory and then executing 
it.  Avoid using the 
.PN fsx 
exerciser over an NFS or diskless file system.
.SH See Also
.I "Guide to System Exercisers"
