.\" SCCSID: @(#)fverify.8	6.2	8/30/89
.TH fverify 8 
.SH Name
fverify \- verify software subsets
.SH Syntax
.B fverify [\-yn]
.SH Description
.NXR "fverify command"
.NXR "setld" "verify software subsets"
.NXR "software subset" "verifying"
The
.PN fverify
command
reads subset inventory records from
standard input and verifies that the attributes for the files
on the system match the
attributes listed in the corresponding records. 
Invoking
.PN fverify
with no arguments causes it to report errors to
the standard output and prompt the user for confirmation
before making corrections.
.PP
Missing files and inconsistencies
in file size, checksum, user id, group id, mode,
and file type are reported.
If inconsistencies in user id,
group id or mode are detected the user is asked if they are
to be corrected. If a missing file is a directory, it will
be created. All errors and informational messages are logged
to the file
.PN /var/adm/fverifylog .
.PP
The
.PN setld
utility uses
.PN fverify
when installing subsets to guarantee correct installation.
.SH Options
Specifying both options will cause the
.B \-y
option to be ignored.
.TP
.B \-n
Error reporting only. When specified,
.PN fverify
reports errors and does not perform any fixes. 
.TP
.B \-y
Fixes only. When specified, 
.PN fverify
fixes modes, UIDs and GIDs on any files which have incorrect
values for these attributes. No user input is required.
.SH Restrictions
Problems with file size, file type, and file checksum cannot be
corrected.
.PP
Because the subset inventories give file names as relative
paths, run
.PN fverify
in the root directory to which the software is installed.
.PP
Many of the files on the system cannot be read or modified
without appropriate privilege. Attempting to run
.PN fverify
without appropriate privilege may result in an excess of
access errors being reported.
.SH Examples
To use
.PN fverify
to report verification problems with 
the BASE subset on ULTRIX, Version 4.0 (VAX), use the following
command: 
.EX
% \fBcd /\fP
% \fB/etc/stl/fverify \-n </usr/etc/subsets/ULTBASE400.inv\fP
.EE
.PP
To correct all problems with the same subset without
being presented any prompts or diagnostic output, type:
.EX
% \fBcd /\fP
% \fB/etc/stl/fverify \-y < /usr/etc/subsets/ULTBASE400.inv\fP
.EE
.PP
To interactively repair verification problems with the COMM
subset on ULTRIX, Version 4.0 (RISC), use the fverify command
with no arguments:
.EX
% \fBcd /\fP
% \fB/etc/stl/fverify < /usr/etc/subsets/UDTCOMM400.inv\fP
.EE
.SH Diagnostics
.PP
.B fverify: out of memory
.br
Not enough memory is available from the system.
.PP
.I pathname:
.B cannot stat (\fIerror-message\fR)
.br
The file
.I pathname
is listed in the inventory but is not on the system.
The
.I error-message
explains why.
.PP
.I pathname:
.B file type `\fIx\fP' should be `\fIy\fP'
.br
The file is listed in the inventory as being of type `\fIy\fR',
but the copy of the file on the disk is type `\fIx\fR'.
The file type codes are:
.sp
.RS
b  block device files
.br
c  character device files
.br
d  directory files
.br
f  regular files
.br
l  hard links
.br
p  fifos (named pipes)
.br
s  symbolic links
.RE
.sp
.PP
.I pathname:
.B checksum
.I n
.B should be
.I m
.br
There is a checksum error on
.I pathname.
The values
.I n
and
.I m
are the actual and expected values.
.PP
.I pathname:
.B size
.I n
.B should be
.I m
.br
The size of file
.I pathname
is not as expected. The numbers
.I n
and
.I m
are the actual and expected values.
.PP
.I pathname:
.B gid
.I n
.B should be
.I m
.br
The group id for
.I pathname
is not as expected. The group ids
.I n
and
.I m
are the actual and expected values.
.PP
.I pathname:
.B uid
.I n
.B should be
.I m
.br
The user id for
.I pathname
is not as expected. The user ids
.I n
and
.I m
are the actual and expected values.
.PP
.I pathname:
.B permissions
.I string1
.B should be
.I string2
.br
The permissions for
.I pathname
are not as expected.
.I String1
and
.I string2
are the actual and expected permissions. The format
of
.I string1
and
.I string2
is the same as that used by the
.PN ls
command.
.PP
.B Creating directory
.I pathname
.br
The directory
.I pathname
is listed in the input inventory but does not exist on the system.
The 
.PN fverify
command will attempt to create the directory.
.PP
.B cannot correct
.I pathname
(\fIerror-message\fR)
.br
A problem reported with
.I pathname
could not be corrected. The
.I error-message
explains why.
.PP
.I pathname
.B corrected
.br
A problem with
.I pathname
was successfully corrected.
.PP
.B Cannot create dir
.I pathname
(\fIerror-message\fR)
.br
The
.PN fverify
program could not create a directory it was attempting to create.
The accompanying
.I error-message
explains why.
.PP
.I n
.B verification errors encountered.
.br
.I m
.B corrections performed.
.br
Before exiting, the
.PN fverify
program prints these statistics describing what had been done.
.sp
.PP
The exit status from
.PN fverify
is the total number of errors detected minus the total number of
successful fixes.
.SH Files
.TP 25 
.PN /usr/etc/subsets/*.inv
Subset inventory files
.TP
.PN /var/adm/fverifylog
Log File
.SH See Also
ls(1), stl_inv(5), setld(8)
.br
.I Guide to Preparing Software for
.I Distribution on ULTRIX Systems
