.TH gentapes 8
.SH Name
gentapes \- produce distribution mag tape media
.SH Syntax
.B "/usr/sys/dist/gentapes [-{wv}] [\fIhostname\fP:]\fIproduct_code\fP special"
.SH Description
.NXR "gentapes utility"
.NXR "media production"
The 
.PN gentapes
utility is used to produce MT9 or TK50 mag tape distribution
media.  The utility searches 
.PN /etc/kitcap 
for the 
.I product_code 
as provided
by the user on the command line, plus the letters "TK" which is appended
to the product code by the utility.  If a corresponding kit descriptor is
found in 
.PN /etc/kitcap ,
the utility uses the information in the kit descriptor
to copy files to the tape media mounted on tape drive special.  Once all
files have been transferred, the tape is rewound and each file is verified
by using the results of 
.PN sum
and comparing it to sums given in the kit
image file.  The 
.PN gentapes 
utility can support multi-volume tape kits, and
multiproduct tape kits.  See 
.MS kitcap 5
for information on how to set up
these features.
.PP
The optional \fIhostname:\fP is the 
name of a remote TCP/IP network machine that
contains the kitcap file.  The utility will search 
.PN /etc/kitcap 
on the
remote machine for the 
.I product_code 
and use it for creating the media. 
The colon (:) is a required delimiter for TCP/IP networks, 
and there is no space between the colon and the 
.IR product_code .
For example, if the product code was ULT-2.2-V-BW, and the kitcap file
to be used was on node "mynode", the proper syntax for this option
would be
.EX
	mynode:ULT-2.2-V-BW
.EE
.PP
The 
.I product_code 
is a user defined code that is located in 
.PN /etc/kitcap ,
and describes the partition, directories, and subsets that make up a
kitcap description.  It can be any set of numbers or letters and is
usually formed in a way to have some meaning relative to the product that it
describes.  For example, if the product name is MYPRODUCT and it is
version 1, the
.I product_code 
might be MYP010.
.PP
The 
.B special 
argument is used to specify a special device such as /dev/nrmt?l.
.SH Options
.IP \-w
Write only. 
.IP \-v
Verify only.
.IP
If neither option appears on the command line, the utility by default will 
write and then verify the files in the kit descriptor.	
.SH Restrictions
You must be a superuser to run this program.  If the optional hostname
is used, you must be able to access files on the remote host 
as superuser.
.SH Files
.TP 20
.PN /dev/nrmt?l
ra device special files
.TP
.PN /etc/kitcap
Kit descriptor database
.SH See Also
sum(1), kitcap(5), genra(8)
