.\" SCCSID: @(#)implog.8c	8.2	12/3/90
.TH implog 8c VAX "" Unsupported
.SH Name
implog \- IMP log interpreter
.SH Syntax
.B /etc/implog
[ \fIoptions\fR\ ]
.SH Description
.NXR "implog program"
.NXS "IMP log interpreter" "implog program"
The
.PN implog
program interprets the message log produced by 
.MS implogd 8c .
.PP
If no arguments are specified, 
.PN implog
interprets and prints every message present in the message
file.
.SH Options
Options may be specified to force the printing of only a
subset of the logged messages.
.IP \fB-c\fR 10 
In addition to printing any data messages logged, show the
contents of the data in hexadecimal bytes.
.IP \fB-D\fR 
Do not show data messages. 
.IP \fB-f\fR 
Follow the logging process in action.  This flag causes
.PN implog
to print the current contents of the log file, then
check for new logged messages every 5 seconds. 
.IP "\fB\-h\fP \fIhost\fP#" 
Show only those messages received from the specified host.
(Usually specified in conjunction with an 
.PN imp.)
.IP "\fB\-i\fP \fIimp\fP#" 
Show only those messages received from the specified 
.PN imp .
.IP "\fB\-l\fP [ \fIlink\fP# ]" 
Show only those messages received on the specified link.  If
no value is given for the link, the link number of the IP protocol
is assumed.
.IP \fB\-r\fR 
Print the raw 
.PN imp 
leader, showing all fields, in addition to the
formatted interpretation according to type.
.IP "\fB\-t\fP \fImessage-type\fP"
Show only those messages received of the specified message type.
.SH Restrictions
Cannot specify multiple hosts, imps, and so forth.
.sp
Cannot follow the reception of messages without looking at
those currently in the file.
.SH See Also
imp(4), implogd(8c)
