.TH kdb_util 8krb
.SH Name
kdb_util \- Kerberos database utility
.SH Syntax
.B /var/dss/kerberos/bin/kdb_util
.I operation
.I filename
[
.I database
]
.SH Arguments
.TP 9
.I operation 
Function to perform on the database. The \fIoperation\fP argument must
be one of the following values:
.RS
.IP load
Converts the database in file \fIfilename\fP, to
.PN ndbm
format and overwrites the
.PN ndbm \-formatted
database specified.
.IP dump
Converts the 
.PN ndbm \-formatted
database into
.PN krb_dbase(5krb)
form, and writes the result to file, \fIfilename\fP.
.IP "slave_dump"
.br
Performs the same function as \fBdump\fP, and creates the file
.PN \fIfilename\fP.dump_ok
\fRwhen finished.  The\fP
.PN \fIfilename\fP.dump_ok
\fRis used by\fP
.PN kprop
\fRto determine
if a\fP \fBslave_dump\fP \fRis in progress, or if it did not 
complete successfully.\fP
.IP "new_master_key"
.br
Prompts you for the old key of the Kerberos database 
as well as a new master key.  It converts the
.PN ndbm \-formatted
database into
.PN krb_dbase(5krb)
format and, at the same time, decrypts those sections of the database
encrypted with the old master key and re-encrypts them with the new master
key.  The result is written to 
the file, \fIfilename\fP.
.RE
.TP
.I filename
The name of the source file for the \fBload\fP operation
or the destination file for the operations: \fBdump\fP, \fBslave_dump\fP, 
and \fBnew_master_key\fP.
.TP
.I database
The name of the 
.PN ndbm \-formatted
database.
If the argument is not
included, the Kerberos database is stored in files
.PN /var/dss/kerberos/dbase/principal.dir ,
.PN /var/dss/kerberos/dbase/principal.pag ,
and
.PN /var/dss/kerberos/dbase/principal.ok
by default.  
.SH Description
.NXR "Kerberos routines" "kdb_util"
The 
.PN kdb_util
command allows the Kerberos administrator to perform several
functions on the entire Kerberos database of a master or slave Kerberos
server in one operation.  The database argument specifies the name
of the 
.PN ndbm \-formatted
Kerberos database.
The Kerberos database utility
reads from and writes to the 
.PN ndbm \-formatted
Kerberos database and, in
addition, it reads from and writes to a file in 
.PN krb_dbase(5krb)
format:	\fIfilename\fP.  A 
.PN krb_dbase(5krb)
file is an ASCII representation
of a Kerberos database.  The functions that can be specified
by the \fIoperation\fP argument are listed in the \fBArguments\fP section.
.PP
Whenever the 
.PN ndbm
Kerberos database is changed by
.PN kdb_util ,
the modification time of
.PN /var/dss/kerberos/dbase/principal.ok
is updated.  The
.PN principal.ok
file indicates the age of the database. 
.SH Files
.TP
.PN /var/dss/kerberos/dbase/principal.pag
.TP
.PN /var/dss/kerberos/dbase/principal.dir
.TP
.PN /var/dss/kerberos/dbase/principal.ok
.SH See Also
krb_dbase(5krb), kdb_init(8krb), kdb_edit(8krb), kdb_destroy(8krb),
kstash(8krb)
