.TH kdb_init 8krb
.SH Name
kdb_init \- initialize the Kerberos master database
.SH Syntax
.B /var/dss/kerberos/bin/kdb_init
[
.I realm-name
]
[
.I database-name
]
.SH Arguments
.TP 13 
.I realm-name
The realm of the Kerberos database.
.TP
.I database-name
A database specified so that 
the current
.PN /var/dss/kerberos/dbase/principal.pag ,
.PN /var/dss/kerberos/dbase/principal.dir ,
and
.PN /var/dss/kerberos/dbase/principal.ok
files are not overwritten.
.SH Description
.NXR "Kerberos routines" "kdb_init"
The
.PN kdb_init
utility creates and initializes the Kerberos master database.
The utility
creates the database files:
.PN /var/dss/kerberos/dbase/principal.dir ,
.PN /var/dss/kerberos/dbase/principal.pag ,
and
.PN /var/dss/kerberos/dbase/principal.ok . 
It also initializes the database by adding three database entries: the
master database principal, a Kerberos default principal, the
ticket-granting service principal (
.PN krbtkt ),
and the password changing principal,
.PN changepw .
.PP
The master database principal is the entry to the database itself.
You cannot use or modify the database without the master database password.
The Kerberos default principal provides
a template for service
principals. 
.PP
The
ticket-granting service,
.PN krbtkt ,
is used by Kerberos principals to
obtain tickets to communicate with other Kerberos principals.
The password-changing principal is not used.
.PP
If \fIrealm-name\fP is omitted when you enter the command,
.PN kdb_init
prompts for it. The program also prompts for the master database key.
You cannot manipulate the database without this key.
.PP
By using \fIdatabase-name\fP, you can create another database to prevent
the current
.PN principal.dir ,
.PN principal.pag ,
and
.PN principal.ok
files from being overwritten.
.PP
After using
.PN kdb_init
to set up the master database, you may want to use the 
.PN kstash(8krb)
utility
to hide the master database password on the database host machine. This
enables Kerberos administration programs to access and manipulate
the master database, without needing the password to be entered manually.
.SH Files
.TP
.PN /var/dss/kerberos/dbase/principal.pag
.TP 
.PN /var/dss/kerberos/dbase/principal.dir
.TP 
.PN /var/dss/kerberos/dbase/principal.ok
.SH See Also
kdb_util(8krb), kstash(8krb), kdb_edit(8krb), kdb_destroy(8krb)
