.TH kdestroy 8krb
.SH Name
kdestroy \- destroy Kerberos tickets
.SH Syntax
.B /usr/bin/kdestroy
[
.B \-f
]
[
.B \-q
]
.SH Description
.NXR "Kerberos routines" "kdestroy"
The 
.PN kdestroy
utility destroys the user's active Kerberos authorization tickets by
writing zeros to the file that contains them. If the ticket file does
not exist,
.PN kdestroy
displays a message to that effect.
.PP
After overwriting the file,
.PN kdestroy
removes the file from the system. The utility displays a message
indicating the success or failure of the operation. If
.PN kdestroy
is unable to destroy the ticket file,
the utility will issue a warning by making the terminal beep.
The ticket file has the name,
.PN /var/dss/kerberos/tkt/tkt[\fIuid\fP]
\fRwhere \fIuid\fP is the user ID of the\fP
.PN kdestroy
\fRprocess\fP.
.PP
If your site does not provide a ticket-destroying mechanism,
you can place the 
.PN kdestroy 
command in your
.PN \&.logout 
file so that your tickets are destroyed automatically at logout.
.SH Options
.TP 7
.B \-f
Causes 
.PN kdestroy
to run without displaying the status message.
.TP
.B \-q
Disables terminal beeping if 
.PN kdestroy 
fails to destroy the tickets.
.SH Restrictions
The
.PN kdestroy
utility
is useful only in environments with user-level
authentication.  ULTRIX Kerberos does not support
user-level authentication.
.PP
Only the tickets in the user's current ticket file are destroyed.
.SH Files
.PN /var/dss/kerberos/tkt/tkt\[\fIuid\fP]
.SH See Also
kinit(8krb), klist(8krb)
