.TH kerberos 8krb
.SH Name
kerberos \- the kerberos daemon
.SH Syntax
.B /usr/etc/kerberos
[
.B \-p \fIpause_seconds\fP
] [
.B \-a \fImax_age\fP
]
.br
[
.B \-l \fIlog_file\fP
] [
.B \-r \fIrealm\fP
] [
.B \-s
] [
.B \-n
] [
.B \-m
]
.SH Description
.NXR "Kerberos routines" "kerberos 8"
The 
.PN kerberos
daemon is used by a Kerberos principal, X, to assist
it in authenticating its identity to another Kerberos principal Y.
In the ULTRIX environment, X would typically be an application
running on one machine while Y would be an application running on
another machine.  Because X and Y run on separate machines, the
authentication of X by Y and Y by X is not an easy task.  If they
ran on a single machine, A, the authentication of X could be performed
easily by Y.  All Y need do is ask A for the user ID of
X.  Since Y trusts the local machine, if the user ID of X is the user ID 
Y expects, then X must be X.
.PP
If Y were to authenticate X
when X runs on a different machine, B, using the same user ID 
method, then Y would be forced to trust the machine B to provide
a correct answer.  The security of this method breaks down as
soon as any one machine that Y is willing to trust is subverted
by a hostile user.  In addition, it breaks as soon as any machines
that cannot be trusted by Y are allowed on the physical network to
which A and B are connected.  Hostile users that have control
over these rogue machines can force them to produce messages that
look as though they come from machine B.
.PP
The 
.PN kerberos
daemon serves as a single point of trust in a local
area network (LAN).  The authentication of X to
Y depends upon the trust that both X and Y have in the 
.PN kerberos
daemon.
X trusts the
.PN kerberos
daemon to give Y only enough information to
authenticate itself as Y to X, and Y trusts 
.PN kerberos
to give X only
enough information to authenticate itself as X to Y.  Y no
longer needs to trust B to authenticate X.
.PP
If X were to authenticate itself to Y, X 
would first communicate with the
.PN kerberos
daemon in order to obtain a ticket that would allow it 
to authenticate to Y.  The ticket can be defined as the data that
X needs to authenticate itself to Y.  X passes the ticket to 
Y, along with other information, to authenticate itself to
Y.  Y then has the ability to send a message back to X in order
to authenticate its identity to X.
.PP
There is one 
.PN kerberos
master daemon per LAN.  The difference between
a Kerberos master daemon and a Kerberos slave daemon is apparent in the
way in which the Kerberos database on the machines on which they run is
updated.  The Kerberos database stores information about Kerberos
principals.  It stores, for instance, the Data Encryption Standard (DES)
encryption key
that is associated with each principal.
.PP
There is only one 
Kerberos database per LAN, to which updates to individual principal entries
should be performed.
This is the Kerberos master database.  The 
.PN kerberos
daemon that runs
on the machine which stores the Kerberos master database is the
.PN kerberos
master daemon.  All the other Kerberos databases in the LAN
are periodically updated by 
.MS kprop 8krb
and
.MS kpropd 8krb ,
based upon 
the data stored in the Kerberos master database.  The
machines that store this type of database run 
.PN kerberos
slave
daemons.
.PP
A \fBrealm\fP is the common name given to a group of principals.  All
principals stored in one Kerberos database belong to a single realm,
and an individual
.PN kerberos
daemon uses only one
Kerberos database.
So, a 
.PN kerberos
daemon only allows
one principal in the realm to authenticate another principal in the
realm.  Inter-realm authentication is not supported in the ULTRIX
version of Kerberos.
.SH Options
.TP 7
.B \-p
Allows the user to select the number of seconds that the 
.PN kerberos
daemon will pause, \fIpause_seconds\fP, after it has
encountered an unrecoverable error, and before it exits.  This
time interval must be between five minutes (300), and one hour (3600).
If neither this option nor the \fB-s\fP option is used, the
.PN kerberos
daemon will pause forever before exiting.
.TP 7
.B \-a
Allows the user to specify the age in seconds, \fImax_age\fP, above
which the Kerberos database should be considered too
old for a Kerberos slave server to use.  The 
.PN kerberos
daemon determines the age of the Kerberos database by
comparing the last
modification time of the 
.PN /var/dss/kerberos/dbase/principal.ok
file with the current time.  The 
.PN principal.ok
file is modified
every time the database is changed.  Since a Kerberos slave
server receives its database in whole from the Kerberos master,
this option specifies the maximum amount of time allowed
between database transfers.  The time value must be between one
hour (3600) and three days (259200).  If neither this option
nor the \fB-s\fP option is used, the maximum age of the database
is infinite.
.TP 7
.B \-l
Allows the user to select a different file, \fIlog_file\fP, into
which the
.PN kerberos
daemon will place Kerberos log messages.
If neither this option nor the \fB-s\fP option is used, the \fIlog_file\fP
value is set to
.PN /var/dss/kerberos/log/kerberos.log .
.TP 7
.B \-r
Allows the user to change the name of the realm, \fIrealm\fP, for
which the 
.PN kerberos
daemon will serve information.  If no
realm name is specified with the \fB-r\fP option, the 
.PN kerberos
daemon will server the realm of which the local host is
a member.
.TP 7
.B \-s
Allows the user to tell the 
.PN kerberos
daemon to use the
default values for \fIpause_seconds\fP, \fImax_age\fP, and \fIlog_file\fP
of a slave server.  If \fImax_age\fP has
not been set with the \fB-a\fP option, the \fImax_age\fP
value is set to the slave server default of one day (86400).
If the \fIpause_seconds\fP value has not been set with the \fB-p\fP
option, the \fIpause_seconds\fP value is set to the slave
server default of 5 minutes (300).  If the \fIlog_file\fP value
has not been set with the \fB-l\fP option, the \fIlog_file\fP value
is set to the slave server default,
.PN /var/dss/kerberos/log/kerberos_slave.log .
Use of the \fB-s\fP
option is equivalent to using the following list of options
with the 
.PN kerberos
daemon:
.EX
\-a 86400 \-p 300 \-l /var/dss/kerberos/log/kerberos_slave.log
.EE
.TP 7
.B \-n
Allows the user to tell the 
.PN kerberos
daemon that the
maximum age of the Kerberos database should be infinite.
This option is only useful if the \fB-s\fP option has been
selected by the user, but the maximum age of the
database should not be equal to the slave default (300),
but should be infinite.  This option also overrides the \fB-a\fP
option.
.TP 7
.B \-m
Allows the user to run the 
.PN kerberos
daemon in manual mode.
This implies that the master key of the Kerberos database
will be input from 
.PN stdin .
If this option is not used,
the master key of the Kerberos database is read from the data
file
.PN kstash(8krb) 
placed in the system.
.SH See Also
kdb_init(8krb), kdb_util(8krb), kdb_edit(8krb), kdb_destroy(8krb),
kerberos(3krb), kprop(8krb) kpropd(8krb)
