.\" SCCSID: @(#)kgmon.8	8.2	12/4/90
.TH kgmon 8 "" "" Unsupported
.SH Name
kgmon \- generate a dump of the operating system's profile buffers
.SH Syntax
.B /etc/kgmon
[
.I options
] [ 
.I system 
] [ 
.I memory 
]
.SH Description
.NXR "kgmon command"
.NXR "profile buffer" "dumping"
.NXR "gprof command" "kgmon command"
The
.PN kgmon
command is used when profiling the operating system.
When no arguments are supplied,
.PN kgmon 
indicates the state of operating system profiling as running,
off, or not configured.
For further information, see 
.MS config 8 .
If the
.PN \-p
option is specified,
.PN kgmon
extracts profile data from the operating system and produces a
.PN kgdump.out 
file suitable for later analysis by 
.PN gprof .
.PP
The 
.PN kgdump.out 
file is first converted to a format suitable for 
.PN gprof 
by using the 
.PN kgconv
filter. The
.PN kgmon
command dumps the kernel profiling data for all the processors in 
the system. The 
.PN kgconv
command is used to create a 
.PN kgmon.out 
file suitable for analysis by 
.PN gprof
for any or all the processors in the system.
.SH Options
.IP \-b 5
Resumes the collection of profile data.
.IP \-h
Stops the collection of profile data.
.IP \-p
Dumps the contents of the profile buffers into a
.PN kgdump.out 
file.
.IP \-r
Resets all the profile buffers. 
If the
.PN \-p
option is also specified, the
.PN kgdump.out 
file is generated before the buffers are reset.
.PP
If neither 
.PN \-b
nor
.PN \-h
is specified, the state of profiling collection remains unchanged.
For example, if the
.PN \-p
option is specified and profile data is being collected,
profiling will be momentarily suspended,
the operating system profile buffers will be dumped,
and profiling will be immediately resumed.
.SH Diagnostics
Users with only read permission on 
.PN /dev/kmem 
cannot change the state
of profiling collection. 
They can get a 
.PN kgdump.out
file with the warning that the data may be
inconsistent if profiling is in progress.
.SH Files
.TP 15
.PN /vmunix
Default system
.TP 
.PN /dev/kmem
Default memory
.SH See Also
gprof(1), config(8), kgconv(8)
