.TH klist 8krb
.SH Name
klist \- lists currently held Kerberos tickets
.SH Syntax
.B /usr/bin/klist
[
\fB\\-s | \-t\fR
] [
.B \-file
[\fIfilename\fP]
] [
.B \-srvtab
]
.SH Arguments
.TP 12
.I filename
The name of the Kerberos ticket file.
.SH Description
.NXR "Kerberos routines" "klist"
The
.PN klist
command allows you to print the name of the ticket file, the identity
of the principal requesting the tickets (as listed in the ticket
file), and the principal names of all the Kerberos tickets currently
held by the user (along with the issue and expiration times for each
authenticator).  Principal names are listed in the form:
.EX
name.instance@realm
.EE
The period (.) is omitted if the instance is null, and the at sign (@)
is omitted if the realm is null.
.PP
The
.PN klist
command also enables you to print the entries in the
.PN srvtab
file.  If the \fB-srvtab\fP option is selected, 
.PN klist
will
print the service name, instance name, realm name, and key version of all
services listed in the
.PN srvtab
file.
.SH Options
.TP 7
.B \-s
Suppresses the printing of the issue and expiration times, the name of the
ticket file, or the identity of the principal.
.TP
.B \-t
Checks for the existence of an unexpired ticket-granting-ticket in the
ticket file.  If one is present, 
.PN klist  
exits with status of zero (0).  
Otherwise, it exits with status 1.  No output is
generated when this option is specified. 
.TP
.B \-file
Causes the following argument to be used as the ticket file.
Otherwise, 
.ig ++
if the
.PN KRBTKFILE
environment variable is set, that variable is used instead. If this
environment variable is set, 
.++
the file 
.PN /var/dss/kerberos/tkt/tkt[\fIuid\fP]
\fRis used, where 
.PN uid 
is the user ID of the
.PN klist
process.\fP
.TP
.B \-srvtab
Indicates that 
.PN srvtab
data should be printed.  If the \fB-file\fP switch is not used, the
.PN srvtab
data is read from the default
.PN srvtab
file,
.PN /etc/srvtab .
.SH Restrictions
User-level authentication is not supported.  However, by naming the
file
.PN tkt.login
with the 
.PN \-file
option, you can look at the tickets generated by
.PN login .
.SH Files
.TP 17 
.PN /etc/srvtab
Default
.PN srvtab
file
.TP
.PN /etc/krb.conf 
To get the name of the local realm
.TP
.PN /var/dss/kerberos/tkt/tkt\[\fIuid\fP] 
The default ticket file
.TP
.PN /var/dss/kerberos/tkt/tkt.login
The file containing tickets generated by
.PN \&.login
.SH See Also
kinit(8krb), kdestroy(8krb)
