.TH kpropd 8krb
.SH Name
kpropd \- Kerberos utility
.SH Syntax
.B /usr/etc/kpropd
.I output_file
[
.B \-d \fIkrb_database\fP
] [
.B \-l \fIlog_file\fP
]
.br
[
.B \-r \fIrealm_name\fP
] [
.B \-s \fIsrvtab_file\fP
]
.SH Description
.NXR "Kerberos routines" "kpropd"
The
.PN kpropd
daemon
runs on a Kerberos slave and waits to receive the Kerberos database propagated
from a 
.PN kprop
process
on a Kerberos master.  The first parameter, \fIoutput_file\fP, that you 
must supply to the
.PN kpropd
daemon is the name of a database file in which
data will be placed when it comes over the network.
.PP
The
.PN kpropd
utility executes the
.PN kdb_util(8krb)
utility,
which loads the database from the file specified in \fIoutput_file,\fP puts it 
in 
.PN ndbm
format, and
copies it into the
Kerberos database in
the
.PN /var/dss/kerberos/dbase
directory. 
.SH Options
.TP 7
.B \-r
Specifies the receiver realm for which data is accepted;
.PN /etc/krb.conf
specifies the default.  (See the
.PN krb.conf(5krb)
reference page for more information.)
.TP
.B \-s
Specifies the
service table (\f(CWsrvtab\fP)
file from which to read the password of the
.PN kpropd
daemon, because a password cannot be entered manually when 
.PN kpropd
is running as
a daemon.  The default is
.PN /etc/srvtab .
.TP
.B \-d
Specifies the primary Kerberos database file of a Kerberos slave.  This
file receives a new or updated database propagated from the Kerberos
master.  The default is
the 
.PN ndbm
database in the directory,
.PN /usr/var/dss/kerberos/dbase .
The 
.PN ndbm
files are:
.PN principal.dir ,
.PN principal.ok ,
and
.PN principal.pag .
.TP
.B \-l
This option specifies the name of the log file to use.
The default log file is
.PN /var/dss/kerberos/log/kpropd.log .
.SH Restrictions
The
.PN kpropd
command does not support the transfer of encrypted data.
.PP
If the 
.PN /var/dss/kerberos/bin
directory is not included in the PATH environment variable of the
process that runs
.PN kprop ,
then
.PN kprop
will fail because it cannot locate
.PN kdb_util .
.SH Files
.TP
.PN /usr/var/dss/kerberos/dbase/principal.ok
.TP
.PN /usr/var/dss/kerberos/dbase/principal.pag
.TP
.PN /usr/var/dss/kerberos/dbase/principal.dir
.SH See Also
kprop(8krb), kdb_util(8krb), krb.conf(5krb)
