.TH lcg01of 8
.SH Name
lcg01of \- LCG01 Color Printing System Filter
.SH Syntax
/usr/lib/lpdfilters/lcg01of [\fB\-c\fP] [\fB\-n\fP\fIlogin\fP] [\fB\-h\fP\fIhost\fP] [\fB\-w\fP\fIwidth\fP] [\fB\-l\fP\fInum\fP] [\fB\-i\fP\fIindent\fP]  [\fBaccounting file\fP]
.SH Description
The 
.PN lcg01of
filter is used to filter text data destined for the LCG01 Color
Printing System.
The filter handles the device dependencies of the printers
and performs accounting functions. 
Accounting records are written to the file specified
by the \fBaf\fP field in 
.PN /etc/printcap 
at the time of completion for each job.
.PP
The filter can handle plain ASCII files, 
nroff files, and sixel files. The
printer also supports the following graphic protocols: ReGIS, NAPLPS,
and GIDIS. To print using these protocols, the xf(8) filter should be
invoked using the \fBlpr \-x\fP option.
The 
.PN lcg01of
filter translates nroff control sequences for underlining, superscripting, and
subscripting into the correct LCG01 control sequences.
.PP
The 
.PN lcg01of
filter can be the specified filter in both
the \fBof\fP and the \fBif\fP fields in the
.PN /etc/printcap
file.  For further information, see 
.MS printcap 5 .
When both fields are specified, the \fBof\fP filter is used only
to print the banner page.  It is then stopped to allow
the \fBif\fP filter access to the printer. The
\fBif\fP filter maintains accounting information.
.PP
If the \fBof\fP field is the only one specified, the filter is used to print the
banner page.  It is then stopped and restarted.
This allows the \fBof\fP filter to be
used to maintain accounting information.
.PP
If the \fBif\fP field is the only one specified,
the banner page is sent directly to
the printer. If the printer has been left
in an undetermined state, the banner page may not
print correctly.
.PP
The best results are obtained when the filter is specified
in both the \fBof\fP and \fBif\fP fields.
For a more detailed discussion on filters, see the 
``Line Printer Spooler Manual''
in the 
.I "ULTRIX Supplementary Documents, Volume 2: Programmer."
.PP
.SH Options
The 
.PN lcg01of
filter ignores the arguments passed to it by the line printer daemon, lpd(8).
The \fBof\fP filter is called with the
following arguments:
.IP "lcg01of \fB\-w\fP\fIwidth\fP \fB\-l\fP\fIlength\fP"
The \fIwidth\fP and \fIlength\fP values come from
the \fBpw\fP and \fBpl\fP fields in the 
.PN /etc/printcap
database. 
.PP
The \fBif\fP (or restarted \fBof\fP) filter is passed the following arguments:
.IP "lcg01of \fB\-c\fP \fB\-n\fP\fIlogin\fP \fB\-h\fP\fIhost\fP \fB\-w\fP\fIwidth\fP \fB\-l\fP\fInum\fP \fB\-i\fP\fIindent\fP  \fBaccounting file\fP"
.SH Diagnostics
The \fBlf\fP field (default /dev/null) in the
.PN /etc/printcap
database specifies error logging file name.
.SH Files
.TP 15
.PN /etc/printcap
Printer capabilities database
.TP
.PN /dev/lp?
.SH See Also
lpr(1), pr(1), printcap(5), lpd(8), MAKEDEV(8), pac(8)
.br
``Line Printer Spooler Manual,''
.I "ULTRIX Supplementary Documents, Volume 2: Programmer"
