.\" Created on 13.10.88 by Adrian Pattison, OSCR-EUROPE
.\"
.\" Updated on 20.12.89 by Adrian Pattison, OSCR-EUROPE
.\"
.\" Print this document on a PostScript printer using the command line
.\"     tbl <filename> | ditroff \-Tps \-man | devps | lpr
.\"
.\" Print this document on a LN01 using the command line
.\"     tbl <filename> | ditroff \-man | lpr
.\"
.TH lmf 8
.SH Name
lmf \- License Management Facility (LMF)
.SH Syntax
.B /etc/lmf
[
.B \-d
.I dir
] [
.I command
[
.I argument...
] ]
.SH Description
You can use the
.PN lmf
utility to maintain a file of registered software licenses.
The file is called the License Database (LDB) and is derived from Product
Authorization Key (PAK) information.
.NX R "License Management Facility commands"
.NX R "lmf commands"
You maintain the LDB by using the commands provided by the
.PN lmf
utility (these are described in the LMF Commands section).
.PP
You can also use the
.PN lmf
utility to keep the kernel cache updated.
The kernel cache contains the active license information 
which is read by
license checking functions in products that provide full
LMF support.
The license checking functions ensure that a product has a valid
license before making the product available for use on the system.
.PP
For more information about the LMF, see the
\fIGuide to Software Licensing\fR.
.PP
When you use the LMF commands you can type them on a single line, for
example:
.EX
# \f(CBlmf register\f(CW
.EE
or you can enter the
.PN lmf
utility and type the commands after the prompt, for example:
.EX
# \f(CBlmf\f(CW
lmf> \f(CBregister\f(CW
.EE
.PP
You can abbreviate the commands, but you must ensure that the abbreviation
is not ambiguous.
For example, you could abbreviate
.PN lmf
.PN register
to
.PN lmf
.PN reg
but not
.PN lmf
.PN re .
.PP
If you need to use the \fIproduct\fR, \fIproducer\fR or \fIauthorization\fR
arguments, they must be specified exactly as they are on the PAK.
Use these arguments if the LDB contains more than one record for a
given \fIproduct\fR name.
.SH Options
.IP "\fB\-d\ \fIdir\fR" .3i
Defines the directory containing the LDB file and the history file.
If you do not use the \fB\-d\fR option, the default LMF directory (\c
.PN /usr/var/adm/lmf )
is used.
The \fB\-d\fR option allows you to have more than one LDB on your system.
.SH LMF Commands
There are three types of
.PN lmf
commands:
.IP \(bu 4
Information commands, which you use to monitor your licensing actions, 
and the status of the LDB and kernel cache
.IP \(bu 4
LDB maintenance commands, which you use to modify the contents of the
License Database
.IP \(bu 4
Service commands, which you use to communicate with the kernel cache 
and may have an immediate effect on users' access to licensed software
.SS "Information Commands"
\fBhelp\fR [ \fIcommand\fR ]
.IP
Prints the syntax of the command specified in the argument list.
If no command is specified,
.PN lmf
.PN help
prints a list of all the recognized commands.
.PP
\fBexit\fR
.IP
Exits from the 
.PN lmf
utility.
You can also press CTRL/D to leave the utility.
.PP
\fBlist\fR [ \fBfull\fR ] [ \fIsource\fR ] [ \fBfor\fR \fIproduct\fR
[ \fI producer\fR ] ]
.IP
Displays details of the registered products on the system.
If you do not supply any arguments,
.PN lmf
.PN list
displays a one line summary of the PAK data for each product in the LDB.
.IP
The
.PN full
argument displays the complete license details for each product.
The \fIsource\fR argument determines the source of the license information.
There are three choices for \fIsource\fR:
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
lw(0.5i) lw(4i).
.sp 6p
\fIldb\fR@T{
Displays a summary for each product in the LDB.
T}

\fIcache\fR@T{
Displays a summary for each product in the kernel cache.
The kernel cache contains the license data used by the license
checking functions.
T}

\fIall\fR@T{
Displays a combined summary for each product in the LDB, and for each
product in the kernel cache.
T}

.TE
.PP
\fBhistory\fR [ \fIlength\fR ] [ \fBfrom\fR \fIdate\fR ] [ \fBfor\fR
\fIproduct\fR [ \fIproducer\fR ] ]
.IP
Lists data from the license management history file.
The history file is maintained by the
.PN lmf
utility and is a record of the LDB Maintenance Commands (\c
.PN register ,
.PN disable ,
.PN enable ,
.PN issue ,
.PN cancel ,
.PN delete ,
.PN modify 
and 
.PN amend ).
The creation of a new LDB is also recorded in the history file.
The history data is output with the most recent operations first.
The data for each 
.PN lmf
command recorded comprises the product identity,
the date and time the command was issued, and the fields that
were changed on the license.
.IP
There are two choices for \fIlength\fR:
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
lw(0.5i) lw(4i).
.sp 6p
\fIshort\fR@T{
Displays a one-line summary of the history data for each command issued.
T}

\fIfull\fR@T{
Displays the history data for each command issued, and the license as it
appeared before the command was issued.
T}

.TE
.PP
The
.PN from
\fIdate\fR argument displays history data for commands issued after the 
\fIdate\fR specified.
The \fIdate\fR argument can be specified in most common formats but
the order must be: day, month, year.
You do not need to use a separator between the day and month, or the month
and the year.
For example, 1st July 1989 could be specified as: 1-jul-1989, 1/7/89,
010789, or 1.july.89.
.SS "LDB Maintenance Commands"
\fBregister\fR [ \fIinput\fR ]
.IP
Registers data from a PAK into the LDB.
If you do not specify any arguments, the command displays a template which
includes the fields that occur on the PAK.
An editor is invoked so that you can add the license data to the
appropriate fields.
The editor used is defined by the EDITOR environment variable, but if this
is not set,
.PN /usr/ucb/vi
is used.
When you leave the editor, the LMF scans the completed template to ensure
that all the license data has been entered correctly.
If it has not, an appropriate error message is displayed and you are given
an opportunity to re-enter the editor and correct any mistakes.
.IP
When you have successfully registered a license you should store the PAK in
a safe place; the PAK is a valuable proof of purchase and represents your
license from Digital Equipment Corporation to use a software product.
.IP
There are two choices for \fIinput\fR:
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
lw(0.5i) lw(4i).
.sp 6p
\fIfilename\fR@T{
Displays a copy of the file specified and invokes an editor so you can fill
in any additional license details before registering the license data in
the LDB.
T}

\fI\-\fR@T{
Registers license data direct from standard input to the LDB.
T}

.TE
.PP
Use the
.PN lmf
.PN register
\fIfilename\fR command to register license data from a file on your
system that contains a partially complete PAK.
When you have finished editing the license data, the LMF scans the file
and gives you the opportunity to correct any mistakes.
.IP
Use the
.PN lmf
.PN register
\fI\-\fR command to register license data direct from standard input.
You can also register a PAK from a file that already has valid license data,
for example:
.EX
# \f(CBlmf register \- < \fIfilename
.EE
The command shown in the previous example does not 
display the contents of
the file, neither does the command allow you to edit the file.
However, the LMF does scan the file to ensure format and 
data is correct.
If the license data is valid, the license is registered in the LDB, 
if not, the appropriate error message is displayed.
.PP
\fBdisable\fR \fIproduct\fR [ \fIproducer\fR [ \fIauthorization\fR ] ]
.IP
Disables a license from use on the system.
Licenses which have been disabled remain in the LDB, but do not get copied
into the kernel cache.
The
.PN lmf
.PN disable
command does not have an immediate affect on the kernel cache.
To remove a license from the kernel cache straight away, use the
.PN lmf
.PN unload
command.
.PP
\fBenable\fR \fIproduct\fR [ \fIproducer\fR [ \fIauthorization\fR ] ]
.IP
Enables a license for use on the system.
Licenses are automatically enabled when they are registered.
.IP
The
.PN lmf
.PN enable
command does not have an immediate affect on the kernel cache.
To load the license details into the kernel cache straight away, use the
.PN lmf
.PN load
command.
.PP
\fBissue\fR \fIfile\fR \fIproduct\fR [ \fIproducer\fR [ \fIauthorization\fR ] ]
.IP
Issues a reconstructed PAK for the product and removes the license from the
LDB.
The reconstructed PAK is output to the \fIfile\fR given in the command.
If the PAK is issued without errors, the license is automatically removed
from the kernel cache.
The format of the reconstructed PAK is suitable for registering using the
.PN lmf
.PN register
.PN \-
.PN <
\fIfilename\fR command.
You can use
.PN lmf
.PN issue
to transfer a license from one system to another.
The license is revoked on the executing system 
and a PAK is produced which can be registered on another system.
.PP
\fBcancel\fR \fIdate\fR \fIproduct\fR [ \fIproducer\fR [
\fIauthorization\fR ] ]
.IP
Cancels the license on the \fIdate\fR given.
This allows you to stop use of the product earlier than the date shown by
the Key Termination Date field on the PAK.
You can change the cancellation date more than once; by reissuing the
.PN lmf
.PN cancel
command with a different \fIdate\fR argument.
.IP
The \fIdate\fR argument can be specified in most common formats but
the order must be: day, month, year.
You do not need to use a separator between the day and month, or the month
and the year.
.IP
The
.PN lmf
.PN cancel
command does not have an immediate affect on the kernel cache.
To update the license details for the product in the kernel cache straight
away, use the
.PN lmf
.PN load
command.
.PP
\fBdelete\fR \fIproduct\fR [ \fIproducer\fR [ \fIauthorization\fR ] ]
.IP
Deletes a license from the LDB and the kernel cache.
.IP
Before you do this you should ensure that you have a record of the license
in your files.
.PP
\fBmodify\fR \fIproduct\fR [ \fIproducer\fR [ \fIauthorization\fR ] ]
.IP
Modifies the unprotected fields on a license.
You can only modify the Comments field and, if the license has
the MOD_UNITS Key Option, the Number of Units field.
These fields have a colon (:) after the field name, and changes to
fields other than Comments and Number of Units are ignored.
The editor used is the same as for
.PN lmf
.PN register .
.IP
The command does not have an immediate effect on the kernel cache, so you
should use the
.PN lmf
.PN load
command to update the license for the product in the kernel cache.
.PP
\fBamend\fR \fIproduct\fR [ \fIproducer\fR [ \fIauthorization\fR ] ]
.IP
Amends the protected fields on a license.
You must only use this command when you need to register the license data
from a Product Authorization Amendment (PAAM).
The fields you can change have a colon (:) after the field name.
You must make all the changes shown on the PAAM, including entering a new
Checksum.
Changes made to fields without colons after the field name are ignored.
The editor used is the same as for
.PN lmf
.PN register .
.IP
The command does not have an immediate effect on the kernel cache, so you
should use the
.PN lmf
.PN load
command to update the license for the product in the kernel cache.
.SS "Service Commands"
\fBreset\fR [ \fBcpus\fR [ \fIn\fR ] ]
.IP
Rescans the LDB so that any changes that have been made are copied to the
kernel cache.
If you do not supply any arguments,
.PN lmf
.PN reset
copies the license details for all products from the LDB to the kernel
cache.
.IP
Use the
.PN lmf
.PN reset
.PN cpus
command to copy license details from the LDB to the kernel cache, and to
determine the System Marketing Model (SMM) by using the number of active
CPUs.
The SMM is the model name of a computer system, as used in marketing and
pricing and is read by the LMF when the system is rebooted.
The SMM is used by some products to define the number of license units
needed in the kernel cache before access to the product is granted.
.IP
Use the
.PN lmf
.PN reset
.PN cpus
\fIn\fR command to copy license details from the LDB to the kernel cache,
and to determine the SMM by using \fIn\fR as the number of active CPUs.
.PP
\fBload\fR \fIusers\fR \fIproduct\fR [ \fIproducer\fR [
\fIauthorization\fR ] ]
.IP
Loads enough license units into the kernel cache to enable use of the product
by the number of \fIusers\fR specified.
The number of license units required for the specified number of \fIusers\fR
is calculated by the LMF.
An appropriate number of units must be registered in the LDB before
issuing the
.PN load
command.
.IP
If you specify zero (0) as the \fIusers\fR argument, all the license
units for the product are loaded into the kernel cache.
If the product is Availability Licensed, you must always specify 
zero (0) as the \fIusers\fR argument.
.PP
\fBunload\fR \fIusers\fR \fIproduct\fR [ \fIproducer\fR ]
.IP
Unloads enough license units from the kernel cache to reduce the use of the
product by the number of \fIusers\fR specified.
The number of license units required for the specified number of \fIusers\fR
is calculated by the LMF.
After you have issued the command any existing users of the product are
allowed to finish using it before the new limit is imposed.
.IP
If you specify zero (0) as the \fIusers\fR argument, all the license
units for the product are removed from the kernel cache.
If the product is Availability Licensed, you must always specify 
zero (0) as the \fIusers\fR argument.
.SH See Also
lmfsetup(8)
.br
.I Guide to Software Licensing
