.TH lmfsetup 8
.SH Name
lmfsetup \- License Management Facility PAK registration script
.SH Syntax
.B /etc/lmfsetup
[
.I template
]
.NX R "License Management Facility commands"
.NX R "lmf commands"
.SH Description
The
.PN lmfsetup
script allows you to register data supplied by a Product 
Authorization Key (PAK).  The
.PN lmfsetup
script prompts you for the data associated with each of the fields on a
PAK.
When all the data has been entered, the License Management Facility 
(LMF) ensures there are entries against all the mandatory fields, 
and that the Checksum
validates all the license data.
If the data has been entered correctly, the PAK is registered in the
License Database.
If the data has been entered incorrectly, the appropriate error message is
displayed and you are given the opportunity to re-enter the data.
.PP
The \fItemplate\fR option allows you to register license data from templates
in
.PN /usr/var/adm/lmf .
A template containing a partially complete PAK is created by some
products as part of their installation process.
The script only prompts you for data on the fields that are empty in
the template.
If the script cannot find the specified template in
.PN /usr/var/adm/lmf
it searches the current directory.
.PP
The
.PN lmfsetup
script is provided as an alternative to the
.PN lmf
.PN register
command.
This displays a template, which includes the fields on the PAK, and
invokes an editor so that you can add the license data to the appropriate
field.
The
.PN lmf
.PN register
command also allows errors to be corrected without having to 
re-enter all the data.
.SH See Also
lmf(8)
.br
.I "Guide to Software Licensing"
