.TH ln01of 8
.SH Name
ln01of \- LN01(S) laser printer filter
.SH Syntax
/usr/lib/lpdfilters/ln01of [\fB\-c\fP] [\fB\-n\fP\fIlogin\fP] [\fB\-h\fP\fIhost\fP] [\fB\-w\fP\fIwidth\fP] [\fB\-l\fP\fInum\fP] [\fB\-i\fP\fIindent\fP]  [\fBaccounting file\fP]
.SH Description
The 
.PN ln01of
filter is used to filter text data destined for the LN01 and LN01S laser printers.
The filter handles the device dependencies of the printers
and performs accounting functions. 
Accounting records are written to the file specified by the
\fBaf\fP field in 
.PN /etc/printcap
at the time of completion for each job.
.PP
The filter can handle plain ASCII files and files that have
been preprocessed by nroff.
Since nroff only deals with monospaced characters this
limits the number of fonts that
will work effectively. The fonts and font selection
files are in 
.PN /usr/lib/font/devln01.
The ln01of filter translates nroff control sequences for underlining
into the correct LN01(S) 
control sequences, but cannot handle superscripting and subscripting.
It will pass through any escape or control sequences.
.PP
The 
.PN ln01of
filter can be the specified filter in both
the \fBof\fP and the \fBif\fP fields in the
.PN /etc/printcap
file, see 
.MS printcap 5 .
When both fields are specified the \fBof\fP filter is used only
to print the banner page.  It is then stopped to allow
the \fBif\fP filter access to the printer. The
\fBif\fP filter maintains accounting information.
.PP
If the \fBof\fP field is the only one specified the
filter is used to print the
banner page.  It is then stopped and restarted. This allows
the \fBof\fP filter to be used to maintain accounting information.
.PP
If the \fBif\fP field is the only one specified
the banner page will be sent directly to
the printer. If the printer has been left
in an undetermined state the banner page may not
print correctly.
.PP
The best results will be obtained when the filter is specified
in both the \fBof\fP and \fBif\fP fields.
For a more detailed discussion on filters see the
``Line Printer Spooler Manual'' in the 
.I "ULTRIX Supplementary Documents, Volume 2: Programmer."
.PP
.SH Options
The arguments passed to the filter depend on its use.
The \fBof\fP filter is called with the
following arguments:
.IP "ln01of \fB\-w\fP\fIwidth\fP \fB\-l\fP\fIlength\fP"
The \fIwidth\fP and \fIlength\fP values come
from the \fBpw\fP and \fBpl\fP fields in the 
.PN /etc/printcap
database.
The \fBif\fP (or restarted \fBof\fP) filter is passed the following arguments:
.IP "ln01of \fB\-c\fP \fB\-n\fP\fIlogin\fP \fB\-h\fP\fIhost\fP \fB\-w\fP\fIwidth\fP \fB\-l\fP\fInum\fP \fB\-i\fP\fIindent\fP  \fBaccounting file\fP"
The \fB\-c\fP flag is optional, and
supplied only when control characters are to be printed, that is, when
the \fB\-l\fP option of 
.MS lpr 1
is used to print the file. 
The \fB\-w\fP and \fB\-l\fP arguments are 
the same as for the \fBof\fP filter, however,
they may have different values if the \fB\-w\fP and/or
\fB\-z\fP options of
.MS lpr 1
were used to print the file.  The \fB\-n\fP and \fB\-h\fP arguments 
specify the login name and host name of the job owner.
These arguments are used to record
accounting information. The \fB\-i\fP option specifies 
the amount of indentation to be used. 
The last argument is the name of the accounting file 
specified from the \fBaf\fP field in the 
.PN /etc/printcap 
database.
.SH Diagnostics
The \fBlf\fP field (default /dev/null) in the 
.PN /etc/printcap
database specifies error logging file name.
.SH Files
.TP 15
.PN /etc/printcap
Printer capabilities database
.TP 
.PN /dev/lp?
.SH See Also
lpr(1), pr(1), printcap(5), lpd(8), MAKEDEV(8), pac(8)
.br
``Line Printer Spooler Manual,''
.I "ULTRIX Supplementary Documents, Volume 2: Programmer"
