.TH lpc 8
.SH Name
lpc \- line printer control program
.SH Syntax
.B /etc/lpc
[
.I command
[
.I argument...
] ]
.SH Description
.NXR "lpc program"
.NXS "line printer control program" "lpc program"
.NXAM "lpc program" "lpq program"
The
.PN lpc
program is used by the system administrator to control the
operation of the line printer system.
For each line printer with an entry in the
.PN /etc/printcap
file,
.PN lpc
may be used to start/stop several different functions.
.PP
Without any arguments,
.PN lpc
prompts for commands from the standard input.
If arguments are supplied,
.PN lpc
interprets the first argument as a command and the remaining
arguments as parameters to the command.
The standard input may be redirected causing
.PN lpc
to read commands from file.
The commands and their parameters are shown below.
Commands may be abbreviated.
.NXR "lpc program" "commands"
.PP
? [\fI \fIcommand...\fR ]
.br
\fBhelp\fR [ \fIcommand...\fR ]
.NXR "help command (lpc)"
.IP
Prints a short description of each command specified 
in the argument list,
or, if no arguments are given, a list of the recognized commands.
.PP
\fBabort\fR [ \fIall\fR ] [ \fIprinter...\fR ]
.NXR "abort command (lpc)"
.IP
Terminates an active spooling daemon on the local host immediately and
then disables printing (preventing new daemons from being started by
.PN lpr
for the specified printers.
.PP
\fBclean\fR [ \fIall\fR ] [ \fIprinter...\fR ]
.NXR "clean command (lpc)"
.IP
Removes all files beginning with ``cf'', ``tf'', or ``df''
from the specified printer queue(s) on the local machine.
.PP
\fBenable\fR [ \fIall\fR ] [ \fIprinter...\fR ]
.NXR "enable command (lpc)"
.IP
Enables spooling on the local queue for the listed printers.
This will allow
.PN lpr
to put new jobs in the spool queue.
.PP
\fBexit\fR
.br
\fBquit\bR
.IP
Exits from
.PN lpc .
.PP
\fBdisablefR [ \fIall\fR ] [ \fIprinter...\fR ]
.NXR "exit command (lpc)"
.NXR "quit command (lpc)"
.NXR "disable command (lpc)"
.IP
Turns off the specified printer queues.
This prevents new printer jobs from being entered into the queue by
.PN lpr .
.PP
\fBrestart\fR [ \fIall\fR ] [ \fIprinter...\fR ]
.NXR "restart command (lpc)"
.IP
Attempts to start a new printer daemon.
This is useful when some abnormal condition causes the daemon to
die unexpectedly leaving jobs in the queue.
The
.PN lpq
command
will report that there is no daemon present when this condition occurs.
.PP
\fBstart\fR [ \fIall\fR ] [ \fIprinter...\fR ]
.NXR "start command (lpc)"
.IP
Enables printing and starts a spooling daemon for the listed printers.
This
command also creates an 
.PN init
file in the printer's spool directory.
The
.PN init
file can be used by filters as an initialization flag.
.PP
\fBstatus\fR [ \fIall\fR ] [ \fIprinter...\fR ]
.NXR "status command (lpc)"
.IP
Displays the status of daemons and queues on the local machine.
.PP
\fBstop\fR [ \fIall\fR ] [ \fIprinter...\fR ]
.NXR "stop command (lpc)"
.IP
Stops a spooling daemon after the current job completes and disables
printing.
.PP
\fBtopq printer\fR [ \fIjobnum...\fR ] [ \fIuser...\fR ]
.NXR "topq printer command (lpc)"
.IP
Places the jobs in the order listed at the top of the printer queue.
.SH Diagnostics
.NXR "lpq program" "diagnostics"
.B "?Ambiguous command"
.br
Abbreviation matches more than on command.
.PP
.B "?Invalid command"
.br
No match was found.
.PP
.B "?Privileged command"
.br
The command can only be executed by root.
.SH Files
.TP 20
.PN /etc/printcap
Printer description file
.TP
.PN /usr/spool/*
Spool directories
.TP
.PN /usr/spool/*/lock
Lock file for queue control
.SH See Also
lpq(1), lpr(1), lprm(1), printcap(5), lpd(8)
