.\" V4.0 source updated for V4.Titanium
.\"
.\" Updated on 26.10.90 by Karen Campbell, OSCR-Europe
.\"
.\" Submitted for FT 9-Nov-90.
.\"
.\" .\" Print this document on a PostScript printer using the command line
.\"     tbl filename | ditroff \-Tps \-man | devps | lpr
.\"
.\" SCCSID: @(#)lprsetup.8	2.4	8/20/87
.TH lprsetup 8 
.SH Name
lprsetup \- printer spooler set up program
.SH Syntax
.B /etc/lprsetup
.SH Description
.NXR "lprsetup command"
.NXAM "printcap file" "lprsetup command"
.NXR "line printer" "setting up""
The
.PN lprsetup
command provides an interactive easy-to-use facility for
administrating the line printers on your system.
The 
.PN lprsetup
program contains on-line help and default answers to questions
about adding, deleting, or changing the characteristics
of any of the line printers on your system.
Whenever a question is asked, the default selection is given in
\[ \] .
You can press Return in response to the question to accept
the default, or enter an alternate value for the given parameter.
.PP
The program knows about all of the possible symbols
in the 
.PN /etc/printcap
file.
See 
.MS printcap 5
for a current list.
After you have entered a printer specification, and have verified
that it is correct,
.PN lprsetup
then creates the spooling directory, links the output filter,
and creates an 
.PN /etc/printcap
entry for the new printer.
.PP
If the printer is connected to your system, you must specify the 
printer device name which is in the 
.B lp
printcap entry.
.PP
If \fBlp\fR is set to
.PN /dev/tty\c
\fInn\fR
you are prompted to choose between 
.PN lat
or
.PN dev .
If your printer is connected to a port on your system, choose the default
setting,
.PN dev .
If you choose
.PN dev
you are prompted for the baud rate, \fBbr\fR.
The default is the recommended baud rate for the printer.
.PP
If you want to set up your printer to a LAT line, choose the
.PN lat
option.
At this point, 
.PN lprsetup
proceeds only if you have chosen a valid LAT device for \fBlp\fR.
It assumes that the LAT device has been configured for host initiated
connections using
.PN lcp .
If it has not, you must do this before the queue works.
For information about how to set up a LAT line, see Chapter 3 of the
\fIGuide to Ethernet Communications Servers\fP.
.PP  
If \fBlp\fR is set to another device, for example
.PN /dev/lp0
the 
.PN lprsetup
program assumes that you are setting up a printer with a parallel port, for
example,
.PN lg02 .
It does not prompt you for device type information, and serial port 
specific entries are not put into the 
.PN /etc/printcap
entry.
.SH See Also
printcap(5), lpc(8), MAKEDEV(8)
.br
\fIGuide to Ethernet Communications Servers\fP
.br
\fIGuide to System Environment Setup\fP
