.\" SCCSID: @(#)lpx.8	8.1	9/11/90
.TH lpx 8 
.SH Name
lpx \- line printer exerciser
.SH Syntax
.B /usr/field/lpx
[
.B \-h
] [
.BI \-o file
.B ] [
.BI \-p n
.B ] [
.BI \-t m
.B ] 
.BI \-d dev
.SH Description
.NXR "lpx exerciser"
.NXR "line printer" "testing"
The line printer exerciser outputs a rolling character
pattern to the printer. Five pages are output and then
the printer will pause for 15 minutes (default).  Then
5 more pages are output, followed by a pause.  This
pattern continues until the process receives a
.CT C
or a kill \-15 \fIpid\fR.
.PP
Disable the line printer queue of the printer to be tested
before running
.PN lpx .
Check the 
.PN /etc/printcap
file to determine the line printer queue,
and then run line printer control
program 
.PN /etc/lpc
to disable the printer.
This will stop other jobs from interfering with the
testing.
.SH Arguments
You must specify the following function flag and its
argument to the
.PN lpx
exerciser:
.IP \fB\-d\fIdev\fR .5i
The line printer device name and unit number
to test as listed in the
.PN /dev
directory.  For example, lp, lp1.
.SH Options
.NXR "lpx exerciser" "options"
The 
.PN lpx
options are:
.IP \fB\-h\fR .5i
Prints the help messages for the 
.PN lpx 
command.
.IP \fB\-o\fIfile\fR
Saves the output diagnostics in \fIfile\fR.
.IP \fB\-p\fIn\fR
Sets pause for \fIn\fR minutes.  During the pause period,
.PN lpx
will
only exercise the controller, saving paper. 
The default value for \fIn\fR is 15.  A value of \fIn\fR = 0 
indicates no pause.
.IP \fB\-t\fIm\fR
Specifies the run time in minutes (\fIm\fR). 
The default is to run
.PN lpx
until the process receives a
.CT C 
or kill \-15 \fIpid\fR.
.SH Restrictions 
If there is a need to run a system exerciser over an NFS link or on a diskless
system there are some restrictions.  For exercisers that need to write into a file
system, such as 
.MS fsx 8 ,
the target file system must be writable by root.  Also the directory, in which any
of the exercisers are executed, must be writable by root because temporary
files are written into the current directory.  These latter restrictions are
sometimes difficult to overcome because often NFS file systems are mounted in a
way that prevents root from writing into them.  Some of the restrictions may be
overcome by copying the exerciser to another directory and then executing it.  
.SH Examples
.NXR "lpx exerciser" "examples"
The following example causes
.PN lpx
to exercise lp1 until the process receives a
.CT C
or kill \-15 \fIpid\fR.
.EX
% /usr/field/lpx \-dlp1 
.EE
The following example exercises lp for 120 minutes in
the background.
.EX
% /usr/field/lpx \-t120 \-dlp &
.EE
.SH See Also
.I "Guide to System Exercisers"
