.\" SCCSID: @(#)makedbm.8yp	8.1	9/11/90
.TH makedbm 8yp
.SH Name
makedbm \- make a yellow pages dbm file
.SH Syntax
.B makedbm
[
.B \-i
.I yp_input_file 
] 
[
.B \-o
.I yp_output_name 
] 
[
.B \-d
.I yp_domain_name 
] 
[
.B \-m
.I yp_master_name 
] 
.I infile 
.I outfile
.br
.B makedbm
[
.B \-u
.I dbmfilename 
]
.SH Description
.NXR "makedbm command"
.NXA "makedbm command" "yppush command"
.NXAM "makedbm command" "dbm file"
.NXAM "dbm keyword" "makedbm command"
The 
.PN makedbm
command takes the file specified by the argument
.I infile
and converts it to a pair of files in
.MS dbm 3x
format, namely 
.PN outfile.pag
and 
.PN outfile.dir .
Each line of the input file is converted to a single
.PN dbm
record.
All characters up to the first tab or space form the key,
and the rest of the line is defined as the key's associated data.
If a line ends with a backslash (\\),
the data for that record is continued onto the next line.
It is left for the clients of the yellow pages to interpret the number 
sign (#); 
.PN makedbm
does not treat it as a comment character.  The
.I infile
parameter can be a hyphen (-), in which case
.PN makedbm
reads the standard input.
.PP
The
.PN makedbm
command is meant to be used in generating
.PN dbm
files for the yellow pages service.
The 
.PN makedbm
command generates a special entry with the key  yp_last_modified,
which is the date of
.I infile.
.SH Options
.TP
.B \-i
Create a special entry with the key yp_input_file.
.TP
.B \-o
Create a special entry with the key yp_output_name.
.TP
.B \-d
Create a special entry with the key yp_domain_name.
.TP
.B \-m
Create a special entry with the key yp_master_name.  
If no master host name is specified, yp_master_name 
will be set to the local host name.
.TP
.B \-u
Undo a
.PN dbm
file.
That is, print out a
.PN dbm
file one entry per line,
with a single space separating keys from values.
.SH Examples
The following example shows how a combination of commands can be used
to make the yellow pages 
.PN dbm 
files 
.PN passwd.byname.pag
and 
.PN passwd.byname.dir 
from the 
.PN /etc/passwd 
file.  The percent sign (%) signifies the system prompt.
.PP
.EX
% awk 'BEGIN { FS = ":"; OFS = "\t"; } 
 { print $1, $0 }' /etc/passwd > ptmp
% makedbm ptmp passwd.byname
% rm ptmp
.EE
.PP
The 
.PN awk
command creates the file 
.I ptmp
which is in a form usable by
.PN makedbm .
The 
.PN makedbm 
command uses the
.I ptmp 
file to create the yellow pages dbm files 
.PN passwd.byname.dir
and 
.PN passwd.byname.pag .
The 
.PN rm
command removes the 
.I ptmp
file.
.SH See Also
yppasswd(1yp), dbm(3x), ypmake(8yp)
