.TH mop_mom 8 
.UC 4
.SH Name
mop_mom \- MOP down-line/up-line load listener 
.SH Syntax
.B /etc/mop_mom 
.SH Description
.NXR "mop_mom command"
.NXR "Maintenance Operation Protocol"
.NXA "mop_mom command" "load command"
.NXR "down-line load listener" "prerequisites"
.NXR "up-line load listener"
The
.PN mop_mom 
command listens for down-line load and up-line dump requests on behalf of 
your local ULTRIX node.  The 
.PN mop_mom
command, 
.PN /etc/mop_mom ,
is usually included in the    
.PN /etc/rc.local
file. 
When a 
down-line load or up-line dump request is received from a target node, 
.PN mop_mom
spawns the loader, 
.PN mop_dumpload , 
to process the load request.  
.NXR "mop_dumpload loader" "prerequisites for load request"
.PP
To process a load request, the loader requires 
the name of the load file. 
During a down-line load process, the target 
system can either request that the loader search the
nodes data base for the name of the load file,
or it can specify an image name as part of its request. 
If the target system specifies an image name, 
the loader does not search the data base for the file before
processing the load request. 
.PP
If no absolute pathname is associated with the image file name,
the loader searches for the file
using the primary default path, 
.PN /usr/lib/mop .
If the image file is not in 
.PN /usr/lib/mop , 
it uses the secondary default, 
.PN /usr/lib/dnet .  
The names of the files in 
.PN /usr/lib/dnet 
must be in lowercase with a 
.PN .sys 
extension. Otherwise, the loader interprets
the file specification literally without appending the 
.PN .sys 
extension.
For example, if you give the loader the file name 
.PN /usr/lib/mop/LOADME , 
it attempts to open a file with an exact match.
.PP
The loader must have the following information before it can
accept and process a load request:
.PP
.B Ethernet Physical Address
.RS 5
If the name of the image is not in the program request message itself,
the Ethernet physical address of the target node 
must be specified in the nodes data base entry for the requesting 
target node.  For further information, see 
.MS addnode 8 .
The same is true if the environment variable, 
LOADUMP_SECURE 
is enabled.
.RE
.PP
.B Image File Name
.RS 5
The loader must be given the name of the image file to down-line load. 
If the image file name is specified in a target node's down-line load 
request, then the loader uses that file.  Otherwise, the file name 
must be defined in the requesting node's data base entry.  For further
information, see 
.MS addnode 8 .
.RE 
.PP
.B Dump File Name
.RS 5
The loader must be given the name of the dump file that will contain the 
up-line dump image of the requesting node's memory.  The dump file 
name must be defined in the requesting node's data base entry.  For
further information, see 
.MS addnode 8 .
.RE 
.PP
Note that the System Manager can force the loader to search the nodes
data base, even when the target node specifies a file name.  The loader
verifies that an entry exists for the requesting node before proceeding
with the down-line load.  
Any file name specified in the request message
supersedes a file name specified in the data base. 
.PP
To force the nodes data base search,
use the following syntax before executing
.PN /etc/mop_mom :
.EX
# setenv LOADUMP_SECURE on
.EE
To permanently enable this feature, enter the following line in the
.PN /etc/rc.local
file after the section on local daemons:
.EX
LOADUMP_SECURE=on /etc/mop_mom
.EE
The
.PN mop_mom
command
is installed in 
.PN /etc .
The down-line loader, 
.PN mop_dumpload ,  
is installed in 
.PN /usr/lib/dnet .
.PP 
The file
.PN /usr/lib/mop
is the primary default pathname for all image files and  
.PN usr/lib/dnet
is the secondary default pathname.  The 
names of the image files in 
.PN /usr/lib/dnet 
must be in lowercase with a 
.PN .sys 
extension.
.SH Examples
.EX
/etc/mop_mom 
.EE
This command is usually included in the 
.PN /etc/rc.local 
file, which causes 
.PN mop_mom 
to listen for down-line and up-line load requests.
.SH Restrictions 
The
.PN mop_mom
command does not turn on network devices.  When executed, it listens only
on those devices that were previously started by network utilities
such as 
.PN ifconfig
or
DECnet
.PN ncp .
Generally, you can ensure that  
.PN mop_mom
performs properly by putting it at the end of your rc.local file.
.PP
Currently, 
.PN mop_mom
only supports RSX, a.out, and VMS downline load images.
.SH Files 
.TP 15
.PN /usr/lib/dnet
Down-line loader
.TP
.PN /usr/lib/mop
Primary default pathname for all image files  
.TP
.PN /usr/lib/dnet
Secondary default pathname  
.SH See Also
addnode(8), ccr(8), getnode(8), load(8), remnode(8), trigger(8)
.br
.I "Guide to Ethernet Communication Servers"
