./" new manpage created 28-feb-90 (JM)
./"
.TH named-xfer 8
.SH Name
named-xfer \- pull BIND/Hesiod zones from another server
.SH Syntax
.B /usr/etc/named-xfer 
.B \-z 
.I zone_to_transfer 
.B \-f 
.I db_file 
.B \-s 
.I serial_no
[
.B \-d 
.I debug_level
] 
[
.B \-l 
.I debug_log_file
] 
[
.B \-t 
.I trace_file
] 
[
.B \-p 
.I port
]
[
.B \-n
] 
[
.B \-a 
.I auth_type.auth_ver
] 
.I servers...
.SH Description
.NXR "named-xfer" "named transfer daemon"
The 
.PN named 
transfer daemon, 
.PN /usr/etc/named-xfer , 
is a server that
is usually run by the 
.PN named 
daemon, 
.PN /usr/etc/named , 
but it can also
be run manually with the given arguments.  The 
.PN named 
transfer daemon
runs on a BIND/Hesiod secondary server and pulls BIND/Hesiod zones
from a primary server. 
This daemon is not run by default, nor can it be started up from
.MS inetd 8c .  
.SH Options
.NXR "named-xfer transfer daemon" "options"
.IP  "\-z \fIzone_to_transfer\fR"  19
This option is required to pull a zone.  The
\fIzone_to_transfer\fR argument specifies the name of the BIND/Hesiod zone
that the 
.PN named-xfer 
daemon will transfer, for example, dec.com.
.IP "\-f \fIdb_file\fR" 19
This option is  required to pull a zone.  The
\fIdb_file\fR argument specifies the name of the file into which the pulled
zone information is placed.
.IP "\-s \fIserial_no\fR" 19
This option is required to pull a zone.  The
\fIserial_no\fR argument should be set to the current serial number of
the SOA record for the zone \fIzone_to_transfer\fR.  If 
\fIserial_no\fR is set to 0, the zone is always pulled.
.IP "\-d \fIdebug_level\fR" 19
The \fIdebug_level\fR argument sets the debug level and determines the amount of
debug information to be displayed.
.IP "\-l \fIdebug_log_file\fR" 19
The \fIdebug_log_file\fR argument specifies the file that will contain any 
debug messages from the zone pull.
.IP "\-t \fItrace_file\fR" 19
The \fItrace_file\fR argument specifies the file that 
will contain a trace from the zone pull.
.IP "\-p \fIport\fR" 19
The \fIport\fR argument specifies the port that will be used instead of the 
default nameserver port listed in 
.PN /etc/services .
.IP \-n 19
This option must be used when the 
.PN named 
daemon is running in the network safe mode.  It indicates that the
zone pull must be authenticated.
.IP "\-a  \fIauth_type.auth_ver\fR" 19
This option must be used if the 
.PN named 
daemon is running in the network safe mode.  The \fIauth_type\fR
argument indicates what type of authentication to use
and the \fIauth_ver\fR argument indicates what version of the
authentication type to use.  Currently, the \fIauth_type\fR
must be "kerberos" and the auth_ver must be "one".
.IP \fIservers...\fR  19
The servers argument is a list of Internet addresses
from which to pull a zone.  If the first host cannot be
ddreached, the 
.PN named 
transfer daemon will try to pull the zone from the next host listed.
.SH See Also
services(5), named(8), kerberos(8krb)
.br
.I "Guide to the BIND/Hesiod Service"
.br
.I "Guide to Kerberos"
