.\" SCCSID: @(#)netsetup.8	8.1	9/11/90
.TH netsetup 8
.SH Name
netsetup \- network set up program
.SH Syntax
.B /etc/netsetup [ install ]
.br
.SH Description
.NXR "netsetup command"
.NXR "local area network" "setting up files"
The
.PN netsetup
command allows you to add your system to a local area network (LAN).
It also enables you to update the
.PN /etc/hosts
and
.PN /etc/hosts.equiv
files.
.PP
To add your system to a LAN,
bring the system to single-user mode.
Then run the
.PN netsetup
command with the 
.PN install
option and answer the questions.
The network manager should be able to provide you with the
information that you need.  
You will need to know your network number
and your host number.
In addition, you need to find out your Internet Protocol (IP) broadcast address
and if the LAN uses all zeros (0) or ones (1).
Furthermore, you have to know if the LAN uses subnet routing.
If the answer is yes,
then you need to know how many bits of the host part of the Internet address
are used to specify the subnet part of the network address.
.NT
If your LAN uses subnet routing,
remember to enter the subnet number as part of the host number.
.NE
After the
.PN netsetup
command has completed,
reboot the system.
.PP
To add or modify hosts in the
.PN /etc/hosts
or
.PN /etc/hosts.equiv
files,
run the
.PN netsetup
command without the
.PN install
option and answer all the questions.
There is no need to bring the system to single-user mode
to update these files.
.SH Files
.PN /etc/hosts
.br
.PN /etc/hosts.equiv
.br
.PN /etc/networks
.br
.PN /etc/rc.local
.SH See Also
.I "Guide to Local Area Networks"
