.\" SCCSID: @(#)nfsstat.8nfs	8.1	9/11/90
.TH nfsstat 8nfs
.SH Name
nfsstat \- display Network File System (NFS) statistics
.SH Syntax
.B /usr/etc/nfsstat 
[
.B \-cnrsz
]
[ \fBvmunix.\fIn\fR ]
[ \fBcore.\fIn\fR ]
.SH Description
.NXR "nfsstat command"
.NXS "Network File System" "NFS"
.NXS "Remote Procedure Call" "RPC"
.NXR "NFS" "displaying statistics"
.NXR "RPC" "displaying statistics"
The
.PN nfsstat
command displays statistical information about the
Network File System (NFS) and
Remote Procedure Call (RPC) interfaces in the kernel.
It can also be used to reinitialize this information.
If you do not specify any options,
.PN nfsstat 
displays the information as though all the options were
specified, but
.PN \-z .
.PP
The statistics are reinitialized to zero each time the system
reboots.
.SH Options
.TP 10
.B \-c
Display the client information.
The client side NFS and RPC information is displayed.
You can combine this option with the
.PN \-n
and
.PN \-r
options to print client NFS or client RPC information only.
.TP
.B \-s
Display the server information.
The server side NFS and RPC information
is displayed.
.TP
.B \-n
Display the NFS information.
The NFS information for both the client and server side is displayed.
You can combine this option with the
.PN \-c
and
.PN \-s
options to print client or server NFS information only.
.TP
.B \-r
Display the RPC information.
The RPC information for both the client and server side is displayed.
You can combine the
.PN \-r
option with the
.PN \-c 
and
.PN \-s 
options to print client or server RPC information only.
.TP
.B \-z
Reinitialize the statistics to zero.
You can combine this option with any of the above options to reset 
particular sets of statistics to zero after printing them.
You must have write permission on 
.PN /dev/kmem
to use this option.
.TP
\fBcore.\fIn\fR
This is the core image,
which is usually stored in the directory
.PN /usr/adm/crash .
If no
.PN core
is specified,
the default is
.PN /dev/mem .
.TP
\fBvmunix.\fIn\fR
This is the kernel image,
which is usually stored in the directory
.PN /usr/adm/crash .
If no
.PN vmunix
is specified,
the default is
.PN /vmunix .
.PP
Here is a sample of
.PN nfsstat
output with no options specified:
.EX 0
# \f(CBnfsstat\f(CW

Server rpc:
calls      badcalls   nullrecv   badlen     xdrcall
1312142    0          0          0          0          

Server nfs:
calls      badcalls
1312142    0          
null       getattr    setattr    root       lookup     readlink   read       
0  0%      319612 24% 1220  0%   0  0%      795544 60% 5857  0%   163962 12% 
wrcache    write      create     remove     rename     link       symlink    
0  0%      7294  0%   165  0%    239  0%    75  0%     74  0%     0  0%      
mkdir      rmdir      readdir    fsstat     
0  0%      0  0%      17612  1%  334  0%    


Client rpc:
calls      badcalls   retrans    badxid     timeout    wait       newcred
30156      40         256        0          296        0          0          

Client nfs:
calls      badcalls   nclget     nclsleep
30143      40         30156      0          
null       getattr    setattr    root       lookup     readlink   read       
0  0%      5833 19%   21  0%     0  0%      17630 58%  420  1%    3455 11%   
wrcache    write      create     remove     rename     link       symlink    
0  0%      475  1%    84  0%     10  0%     4  0%      0  0%      0  0%      
mkdir      rmdir      readdir    fsstat     
2  0%      0  0%      1423  4%   786  2%    
.EE
Of the client RPC statistics,
each field is as follows:
.IP calls 10
The total number of client RPC calls successfully begun.
.IP badcalls
The total number of unsuccessful (badly formed) RPC calls.
.IP retrans
The number of times that RPC calls were transmitted.
.IP badxid
The number of times a reply transaction ID did not match the
request transaction ID.
.IP timeout
The number of times a request was made but not answered.
.IP wait
The number of times the client system had to sleep because
the client structure was busy.
.IP newcred
This field is never used, and is therefore always 0.
.PP
Of the client NFS statistics,
each field is as follows:
.IP calls 10
The total number of client NFS calls successfully begun.
.IP badcalls
The total number of unsuccessful (badly formed) NFS calls.
.IP nclget
The number of times a client structure was successfully acquired.
The client structure is where clients keep track of an outstanding RPC
call.
.IP nclsleep
The number of times all client structures were busy.
Since there are six client structures,
.PN nclsleep
is the number of times that there were six operations in
progress when a seventh one arrived and had to wait
until one of the client structures was freed.
.PP
Of the server RPC statistics,
each field is as follows:
.IP calls 10
The total number of RPC calls received by NFS daemons.
.IP badcalls
The number of badly formed RPC calls.
.IP nullrecv
The number of empty RPC calls.
.IP badlen
The number  of RPC calls with too small of a body.
.IP xdrcall
The number of RPC calls that failed to decode in XDR.
.PP
Of the server NFS statistics,
each field is as follows:
.IP calls 10
The total number of NFS calls dispatched by an NFS daemon.
.IP badcalls
The number of badly formed NFS requests.
.PP
The remaining fields provide counts of the completed NFS operations.
Here are their descriptions:
.IP null 11
This is the number of null operations.
If the software is working properly,
this field should be zero.
.IP getattr
This is the number of file attributes that were retrieved.
In the example above,
there were 319,612, or 24% on the server.
.IP setattr
This is the number of file attributes that were stored.
.IP root
This field is not used and should always be zero.
.IP lookup
This is the number of times that a directory pathname was looked up.
.IP readlink
This is the number of times a symbolic link was read.
.IP read
This is the number of times data was read from a file.
.IP wrcache
This field is not used and should always be zero.
.IP write
This is the number of times data was written to a file.
.IP create
This is the number of times a new file was created.
.IP remove
This is the number of times a file was removed.
.IP rename
This is the number of times a file was renamed.
.IP link
This is the number of times a hard link was created.
.IP symlink
This is the number of times a symbolic link was created.
.IP mkdir
This is the number of times a directory was created.
.IP rmdir
This is the number of times a directory was removed.
.IP readdir
This is the number of times a directory was read.
.IP fsstat
This is the number of times that file system attributes and
statistics were retrieved.
.SH Files
.TP 15
.PN /vmunix 
System namelist
.TP
.PN /dev/kmem
kernel memory
