.TH nrglbd 8ncs
.SH Name
nrglbd \- non-replicating global location broker (GBL) daemon
.SH Syntax
\fB/etc/ncs/nrglbd\fR [ \fB\-version\fR ]
.SH Description
The global location broker (GLB), enables clients to locate
servers on a network or internet.
.NXR "Non-replicating Global Location Broker Daemon" "nrglbd"
The GLB database stores the locations
(that is, the network addresses and port numbers) where server processes are running.
The GLB maintains this database and provides access to it.
.PP
The 
.PN /etc/ncs/nrglbd
daemon should run as a background process.
.NXR "Non-Replicatable Global Location Broker Daemon"
It requires no options or arguments.
A Local Location Broker daemon
(
.PN llbd
)
must be running on the local host when 
.NXR "Local Location Broker Daemon"
.PN nrglbd
is started.
.PP
You can run only one 
.PN nrglbd
on a network or internet.
.PP
On ULTRIX systems,
.PN nrglbd
is typically started by a line in
.PN /etc/rc
such as the following:
.EX
/etc/ncs/nrglbd& echo \-n ' nrglbd' > /dev/console
.EE 
.SH Options
.TP 10
\fB\-version\fR
Display the version of the Network Computing Kernel (NCK) that this 
.PN nrglbd
belongs to but do not start the daemon.  (NCK is part of the Network
Computing System (NCS) on which DECrpc is based.)
.SH Restrictions
This section discusses the procedure to follow if the system running the
.PN nrglbd 
is taken off-line.
.PP
If you restart
.PN nrglbd
on the same system and no server on any other system changed state, all
things should run as before.  If, however, an application tries to
contact a server that is no longer running or which has different port
numbers, the application will fail.  The application also will not see
any new server registrations.
.PP
If a copy of
.PN /etc/ncs/glbdbase.dat
is not available, you must create an up to date version of the file
before restarting
.PN nrglbd .
To do so, use
.PN lb_admin
to query the
.PN llbd
for registration data on every system running an DECrpcserver and
then use
.PN lb_admin
to register all DECrpc servers with the GLB on the new host. 
Then restart
.PN nrglbd .
.SH See Also
lb_admin(1ncs), llbd(8ncs)
.br
\fIGuide to the Location Broker\fR
