.\" SCCSID: @(#)opser.8	8.1	9/11/90
.TH opser 8
.SH Name
opser \- interactive program for system maintenance
.SH Syntax   
.B opser
.SH Description
.NXR "opser utility"
.NXR "system" "backing up"
The
.PN opser
program
is a utility that simplifies normal system and incremental backup.
It is invoked by default when the system
operator logs in to the operator account.  The system then runs the
.PN /opr/opser
utility in place of a shell.  The 
.PN opser 
utility
prompts the operator to bring the system to single-user mode for file
maintenance. This includes a file system consistency check and 
file system backup, and then prompts to restart multiuser mode.
.PP
Network 
.PN opser 
allows the operator to perform 
.PN opser 
commands on a slave
system. The master system name must be in the 
.PN /.rhosts
file on the
slave system and the slave name in the in the
master system's 
.PN /.rhosts
file. 
If necessary, the operator can
escape to the shell, execute commands, and return.
Online help is provided.
The
.PN opser
program allows remote file system backup, file system check, restart
and both local and remote shell command execution.
.SH Restrictions
.IP \(bu 4
The local 
.PN opser 
utility supports only tape as a backup media.
.IP \(bu 4
The remote 
.PN opser 
utility allows backup to files, disks, or tapes.
.IP \(bu 4
The 
.PN opser 
utility must be run from the system console; if run from a
terminal, its operation is limited.  
.IP \(bu 4
The 
.PN opser 
utility does not contain file restore capability.
.IP \(bu 4
The operator must escape to the shell to perform this function.
.SH Diagnostics
Included in the utility as it runs.
.SH Files
.PN /opr/opser
.br
.PN /opr/backup
.br
.PN /opr/dobackup
.SH See Also
.I "Guide to System Backup and Restore"
