.\"
.TH prestoctl_svc 8 
.SH Name
prestoctl_svc \- Prestoserve control daemon
.SH Syntax
.B /usr/etc/prestoctl_svc
[
.B \-n
]
.SH Description
.NXR "prestoctl_svc daemon"
The
.PN prestoctl_svc
RPC-based daemon allows remote client systems to monitor and administer
a Prestoserve cache and its driver.  The client system does not have to
be running the Prestoserve software.  The daemon 
can be started manually, or 
it can be started each time you reboot by adding the command to the 
.PN rc.local 
file of the machine running the Prestoserve software.
.PP
You must run the 
.PN prestoctl_svc
daemon if you want remote client systems to be able to use the 
.PN "presto -h"
command to monitor and manage your system and if you want to use the 
.PN dxpresto 
command.  Refer to 
.MS presto 8
and to 
.MS dxpresto 8X
for more information.  
.SH Options
.IP \-n
Allows remote client systems to manage a Prestoserve cache and its driver.
The \fB\-n\fP option allows remote client systems 
to change the size of a Prestoserve cache and to change 
the state of a Prestoserve cache by using remote 
procedure calls.  The \fB\-n\fP option is useful when evaluating or demonstrating 
Prestoserve capabilities.  Because of security problems, it is
recommended that the \fB\-n\fP option not be used on production machines.
.SH Files
.TP 18
.PN /dev/pr0
Generic Prestoserve control device.
.TP 18
.PN /etc/rc.local
File where you add the 
.PN "prestoctl_svc"
command.
.SH "See Also"
presto(8), dxpresto(8X), presto(4)
.br
\fIGuide to Prestoserve\fP
