.\" SCCSID: @(#)pstat.8	5.1	1/17/89
.TH pstat 8
.SH Name
pstat \- print system facts
.SH Syntax
.B /etc/pstat
.B \-aixvptufTk
[
.I system
] [
.I corefile
]
.SH Description
.NXR "pstat command"
.NXR "system" "printing statistics"
The
.PN pstat
command
interprets the contents of certain system tables. The contents of system
tables can change while
.PN pstat
is running, so the information it gives is a snapshot taken at a given
time.
If you specify 
.IR system ,
.PN pstat
gets the namelist from the named system's kernel. If you omit
.IR system ,
.PN pstat
uses the namelist in 
.PN /vmunix .
If you specify 
.IR corefile , 
.PN pstat 
uses the tables in the core file. Otherwise,
.PN pstat
uses the tables in 
.PN /dev/kmem .
Use the 
.B \-k
option when you specify the
.I system
or 
.I corefile
argument.  
.SH Options
.IP \fB-a\fR 5
When used with the
.B \-p 
option, displays all process slots, rather than just active ones.
.IP \fB-f\fR
Displays the open file table with the following headings:
.RS 8
.IP LOC 10
The core location of this table entry.
.IP TYPE
The type of object the file table entry points to.
.IP FLG
Miscellaneous state variables, encoded as follows:
.RE
.RS 20
.IP R 4
Open for reading
.IP W
Open for writing
.IP A
Open for appending
.IP S
Shared lock
.IP X
Exclusive use
.IP I
Asynchronous input and output notification
.IP B
Block-if-in-use flag is set (shared line semaphore)
.RE
.RS 8
.IP CNT 10
Number of processes that know this open file.
.IP GNO
The location of the gnode table entry for this file.
.IP OFFS/SOCK
The file offset 
or the core address of the associated socket structure.
(See 
.MS lseek 2 
for information on file offsets.)
.RE
.IP \fB-i\fR 
Displays the gnode table with the following headings:
.RS 8
.IP LOC 10
The core location of this table entry.
.IP FLAGS
Miscellaneous state variables, encoded as follows:
.RE
.RS 20
.IP L 4
Locked.
.IP U
Update time for the file system 
must be corrected. See the 
.MS fs 5 
reference page for more information.
.IP A
Access time must be corrected.
.IP M
File system is mounted here.
.IP W
Wanted by another process (L flag is on).
.IP T
Contains a text file.
.IP C
Changed time must be corrected.
.IP S
Shared lock applied.
.IP E
Exclusive lock applied.
.IP Z
Someone waiting for an exclusive lock.
.IP I
In-use flag is set (shared line semaphore).
.RE
.RS 8
.IP CNT 10
Number of open file table entries for this gnode.
.IP DEV
Major and minor device number of the file system in which
this gnode resides.
.IP RDC
Reference count of shared locks on the gnode.
.IP WRC
Reference count of exclusive locks on the gnode. (This count can
be >1 if, for example, a file descriptor is inherited across a fork.)
.IP GNO
I-number within the device.
.IP MODE
Mode bits. (See 
.MS chmod 2 
for information about mode bits.)
.IP NLK
Number of links to this gnode.
.IP UID
User identification (ID) of owner.
.IP SIZ/DEV
Number of bytes in an ordinary file or
major and minor device of a special file.
.RE
.IP \fB-k\fR 
Prevents the process that is created from 
becoming too large, which can cause performance problems.
Use \fB-k\fR when you specify the
.I system
or
.I corefile
argument.
.IP \fB-p\fR 5
Displays the process table for active processes with these headings:
.RE
.RS 8
.IP LOC 10
The core location of this table entry.
.IP S
Run state, encoded as follows:
.RE
.RS 20
.IP 0 4
No process
.IP 1
Waiting for some event
.IP 3
Able to be run
.IP 4
Being created
.IP 5
Being terminated
.IP 6
Stopped under trace
.RE
.RS 8
.IP F 10
Miscellaneous state variables, combined with a Boolean OR operation 
(hexadecimal):
.RE
.RS 20
.IP 00000001 9
Process is resident in memory.
.IP 00000002
System process:  swapper, pager, idle (RISC only), trusted path daemon.
.IP 00000004
Process is being swapped out.
.IP 00000008
Process requested swapout for page table growth.
.IP 00000010
Traced.
.IP 00000020
Used in tracing.
.IP 00000040
Locked in by a 
.PN plock 
call.
.IP 00000080
Waiting for page-in to complete.
.IP 00000100
Protected from swapout while transferring resources to another process.
.IP 00000200
Used by a
.PN sigpause 
call. 
.IP 00000400
Exiting.
.IP 00000800
Protected from swapout while doing physical input and output.
.IP 00001000
Process resulted from a
.PN vfork 
call, 
which is not yet complete.
.IP 00002000
Parent has received resources returned by a child created with the
.PN vfork 
call.
.IP 00004000
Process has no virtual memory because it is a parent in the context of
the
.PN vfork 
call.
.IP 00008000
Process is demand-paging data pages from its text gnode.
.IP 00010000
Process has advised of sequential memory access.
.IP 00020000
Process has advised of random memory access.
.IP 00080000
Process has indicated intent to execute data or stack (RISC only).
.IP 00100000
POSIX environment: no SIGCLD generated when children stop.
.IP 00200000
Process is owed a profiling tick.
.IP 00400000
Used by a 
.PN select 
call
.IP 00800000
A login process.
.IP 04000000
System V file lock applied.
.IP 08000000
Repair of unaligned accesses has been attempted (RISC only).
.IP 10000000
Process has called the
.PN execve 
system routine.
.IP 20000000
The idle process (RISC only).
.RE
.RS 8
.IP POIP 10
Number of pages currently being pushed out from this process.
.IP PRI
Scheduling priority. (See 
.MS getpriority 2 
for information on priorities.)
.IP SIGNAL
Signals received (signals 1-32 coded in bits 0-31).
.IP UID
Real user ID.
.IP SLP
Amount of time the process has been blocked.
.IP TIM
Time resident in seconds; values greater than 127 are coded as 127.
.IP CPU
Weighted integral of CPU time, for scheduler.
.IP NI
Nice level. (See 
.MS getpriority 2 
for information about nice levels.)
.IP PGRP
Process number of the root of the process group
(the opener of the controlling terminal).
.IP PID
The process ID number.
.IP PPID
The process ID of the parent process.
.IP ADDR
If the process is in memory, identifies the user area page frame number of the page table entries.
If the process is swapped out, identifies the position in the swap area
measured in multiples of 512 bytes.
.IP RSS
Resident set size minus the number of physical page frames allocated
to this process.
.IP SRSS
RSS at last swap (0 if never swapped).
.IP SIZE
Virtual size of process image (data plus stack) in multiples of 512 bytes.
.IP WCHAN
Wait channel number of a waiting process.
.IP LINK
Link pointer in list of processes that can be run.
.IP TEXTP
If text is pure, pointer to location of text table entry.
.IP CLKT
Countdown for real interval timer, 
measured in clock ticks (10 milliseconds). See the
.MS getitimer 2
reference page for information about the real interval timer.)
.IP TTYP
Address of controlling the terminal.
.IP DMAP
Address of data segment dmap structure.
.IP SMAP
Address of stack segment dmap structure.
.RE
.IP \fB-s\fR 5
Displays the following information about the pages used for swap space:
.RS 8
.IP \(bu 5
The number of pages reserved, but not necessarily allocated, by the 
system for currently
executing processes.
.IP \(bu 5
The number of pages used (physically allocated), including the number
used for text images. 
.IP \(bu 5
The number of pages free, wasted, or missing. Free pages are pages that
have not been allocated. Missing pages are usually allocated to argdev.
Wasted pages indicate the amount of space lost because the swap space is
fragmented. 
.IP \(bu 5
The number of pages available, which indicates the amount of space available for
swapping.
.RE
.IP \fB-t\fR 5
Displays the table for terminals
with the following headings:
.RS 8
.IP RAW 10
Number of characters in the raw input queue.
.IP CAN
Number of characters in the canonic input queue.
.IP OUT
Number of characters in the output queue.
.IP MODE
Terminal mode, as described in 
.MS tty 4
.
.IP ADDR
Physical device address.
.IP DEL
Number of delimiters (newlines) in the canonic input queue.
.IP COL
Calculated column position of the terminal.
.IP STATE
Miscellaneous state variables, encoded as follows:
.RE
.RS 20
.IP T 4
Line is timed out.
.IP W
Waiting for open to complete.
.IP O
Open.
.IP C
Carrier is on.
.IP B
Busy doing output.
.IP A
Process is awaiting output.
.IP X
Open for exclusive use.
.IP H
Hangup on close.
.IP S
Output is stopped (ttstop).
.IP I
In-use flag is set (shared line semaphore).
.IP D
Open nodelay.
.IP G
Ignore carrier.
.IP N
Nonblocking input and output.
.IP Z
Asychronous input and output notification.
.IP L
Terminal line is in the process of closing.
.IP Q
Output suspended for flow control.
.RE
.RS 8
.IP PGRP 10
Process group for which this is the controlling terminal.
.IP DISC
Line discipline; blank is old tty OTTYDISC, ntty for NTTYDISC,
or termio for TERMIODISC.  
.RE
.IP \fB-T\fR 5
Displays the number of used and free slots in the system tables.
This option is useful for determining how full the system tables have become 
if the system is under a heavy load.
.IP \fB-u\fIpid\fR 5
Displays information about the specified user process. The \fIpid\fR
argument is the process ID number as displayed by the
.PN ps 
command.
The process must be in main memory, unless you specify the \fIcorefile\fR
argument on the command line. If you specify a core file, \fIpid\fR
must be 0.
.IP \fB-v\fR 5
Displays a listing of all vector processes on the system. This option is
valid only for processors that have the VAX vector hardware. The
following list describes the headings in the display:
.RS 8
.IP LOC 10
The core location of this table entry
.IP PPGRP
The process number of the root of the process group
(the opener of the controlling terminal)
.IP PID
The process ID number
.IP PPID
The process ID of the parent process
.IP VSTAT
One of the following vector process statuses:
.RE
.RS 20
.IP WAIT
New vector process, which is waiting for a vector processor to be
allocated to it.
.IP LOAD
Process context is present in both vector and scalar processors.
.IP SAVED
Process vector context is saved in memory.
.IP LIMBO
A vector processor has been allocated to the process, but the vector
context of the process has not yet been loaded.
.RE
.RS 8
.IP VERRS
Number of vector processor errors incurred by this process.
.IP REFS
Number of times this process was refused scheduling into a vector
processor.
.IP CHPCXT
Number of times the scaler context has been saved and restored, while
the vector context remains resident in the vector processor.
.IP EPXCXT
Number of times both the scalar and vector contexts have been saved and
restored.
.RE
.IP \fB-x\fR 5
Displays the text table with the following headings:
.RS 8
.IP LOC 10
The core location of this table entry.
.IP FLAGS
Miscellaneous state variables encoded as follows:
.RE
.RS 20
.IP T 4
A process called the 
.MS ptrace 2
system call. 
.IP W
Text has not yet been written on the swap device.
.IP L
Loading is in progress.
.IP K
Locked.
.IP w
Wanted. (L flag is on.)
.IP F
Text structure is on the freelist.
.IP P
Resulted from demand-page-from-gnode execution format.  For further
information, see 
.MS execve 2 .
.IP l
Locked from being paged or swapped.  For further information, see
.MS plock 2 .
.IP B
All attached processes are being killed due to server write of an 
.PN a.out 
file.
.RE
.RS 8
.IP DADDR 10
Address of the text dmap structure in core.
.IP CADDR
Head of a linked list of loaded processes using this text segment.
.IP SIZE
Size of the text segment, measured in multiples of 512 bytes.
.IP IPTR
Core location of the corresponding gnode.
.IP CNT
Number of processes using this text segment.
.IP CCNT
Number of processes in core using this text segment.
.IP LCNT
Number of process locking this text segment.
.IP POIP
Number of pages currently being pushed out in this text segment.
.IP CMAP
The address of the last CMAP entry freed.
.RE
.SH Files
.TP 15
.PN /dev/mem
User process information
.TP 15
.PN /dev/kmem
Kernel memory 
.TP 15
.PN /vmunix 
System namelist
.SH See Also
ps(1), chmod(2), execve(2), getitimer(2), getpriority(2), lseek(2), plock(2), ptrace(2), stat(2), fs(5)
