.\" SCCSID: @(#)quotacheck.8	8.1	9/11/90
.TH quotacheck 8 
.SH Name
quotacheck \- file system quota consistency checker
.SH Syntax
.B /etc/quotacheck
[
.B \-v
] [
.B \-f
]
.I filesystem ...
.br
.B /etc/quotacheck
[
.B \-v
]
.B \-a
.SH Description
.NXR "quotacheck command"
.NXAM "quotacheck command" "quota system call"
.NXAM "quotacheck command" "setquota system call"
.NXA "quotacheck command" "quotaon command"
.NXA "quotacheck command" "repquota command"
.NXR "disk quota" "checking"
The
.PN quotacheck
command examines each file system,
builds a table of current disc usage,
and compares this table against that stored
in the disc quota file for the file system.
If 
.PN quotacheck 
detects any inconsistencies, it updates both the
quota file and the current system copies of the
incorrect quotas.  Inconsistencies occur only
if an active file system is checked.
.PP 			
Normally, 
.PN quotacheck
returns a warning if it cannot find a
valid quota file.  If you use the 
.PN \-f 
option, 
.PN quotacheck 
creates a quota file automatically and
then performs its normal functions.	
.PP
If you use the
.PN \-a
flag in place of any file system
name, 
.PN quotacheck
checks all the file systems listed in 
.PN /etc/fstab
to be read-write with disc quotas.
.PP
Normally
.PN quotacheck
reports only modified quotas. If the
.PN \-v
option is supplied,
.PN quotacheck
will indicate the calculated disc quotas for each
user on a particular file system.
.PP
The
.PN quotacheck
command expects each file system to be checked to have a
quota file named
.PN quotas
in the root directory.  If none is present, 
.PN quotacheck
will ignore the file system.
.NXR "quotas file" "quotacheck command and"
.PP
The
.PN quotacheck 
command is normally run at boot time from the 
.PN /etc/rc.local
file, 
before enabling disc quotas with
.MS quotaon 8 .
For further information, see 
.MS rc 8 .
.PP
The
.PN quotacheck
command
accesses the raw device in calculating the actual
disc usage for each user.  Thus, the file systems
checked should be quiescent while
.PN quotacheck
is running.
.SH Files
.TP 15
.PN /etc/fstab
Default file systems
.SH See Also
quota(2), setquota(2), quotaon(8)
.br
``Disk Quotas in a UNIX Environment,'' 
.I "ULTRIX Supplementary Documents, Volume 3: System Manager"
