.TH ris 8
.SH Name
ris \- remote installation services utility
.SH Syntax
.B /etc/ris
.SH Description
.NXR "ris program (RIS)"
The 
.PN ris 
utility performs remote installation services 
which install system software to a client machine through the
TCP/IP local network.  The client machine can be a VAX or a 
RISC machine.  
.PP
The server on which the remote installation services area
is located can be either a VAX or a RISC machine.
.PP
The remote installation services utility uses the 
directory 
.PN /usr/var/adm/ris 
as a base.
When you install the first product to 
.PN /usr/var/adm/ris, 
the 
.PN ris
utility creates a remote installation services area.
The area is called either 
.PN ris0.mips 
or 
.PN ris0.vax. 
.PP
The area contains one or more ULTRIX software products.
Each product contains the subsets of the kits that can be
installed to clients on a network.  Clients registered for
an area install software over the network to their 
processor.  
.PP
The 
.PN ris
utility performs the following functions:
.TP 20
a -  Add client 
.TP
r -  Remove client 
.TP
s -  Show products in remote installation environments
.TP
m -  Modify client
.TP
i -  Install software 
.PP
You must use the 
.PN ris
utility interactively to set up a remote installation services area.
After you have set up a remote installation services area
on the server, you can use the 
.PN ris
utility either interactively or from the command line to manage clients.  
.PP
The 
.PN /usr/var/adm/ris 
directory also holds a subdirectory,
.PN /usr/var/adm/ris/clients .
This directory contains a database file, 
.PN risdb, 
that you can use to manage multiple clients. 
.SH Examples
The example that follows invokes the
.PN ris
utility interactively:
.EX
# \f(CB/etc/ris\f(CW
.EE
.PP
A menu appears from which you can select options to perform
.PN ris
functions.
.PP
The examples that follow manage the client 
.PN bergal
using the command line.
.PP
.PP
The syntax of the command to add a
client follows:
.EX
/etc/ris \-a <clientname> \-h <Ethernet_address> \-p path,product[,product]
.EE
.PP
The following command adds client
.PN bergal
and allows that client to install a product over
the network:
.EX
# \f(CB/etc/ris \-a bergal \-h 08\-00\-2B\-03\-05\-8B \-p ris0.mips,product_1\f(CW
.EE
.PP
The syntax of the command to modify a
client follows:
.EX
/etc/ris \-a <clientname> [\-h <Ethernet_address>] [\-p <path,product,product>]
.EE
.PP
The following command modifies client
.PN bergal
and allows that client to install a product over
the network:
.EX
# \f(CB/etc/ris \-m bergal \-p ris0.mips,product_2\f(CW
.EE
.PP
.PP
The syntax of the command to remove a
client follows:
.EX
/etc/ris \-r <clientname>
.EE
.PP
The following command removes client
.PN bergal:
.EX
# \f(CB/etc/ris \-r bergal\f(CW
.EE
.SH Files
.PN /usr/var/adm/ris 
.PP
.PN /usr/var/adm/ris/clients
.PP
.PN /usr/var/adm/ris/clients/risdb
.SH See Also
setld(8)
.br
.I "Guide to the Remote Installation Services"
.br
.I "Guide to Server Setup"
