.TH rzdisk 8 
.SH Name
rzdisk \- SCSI disk maintenance utility
.SH Syntax
.B /bin/rzdisk
.br
.B /bin/rzdisk
.B \-c
[
.I ask
]
.I special
.br
.B /bin/rzdisk
.B \-d
[
.I bfi
|
.I sector
|
.I block
]
.I special
.br
.B /bin/rzdisk 
.B \-f 
[
.I vendor
|
.I known
]
.I special
.RE
.br
.B /bin/rzdisk
.B \-g
[
.I current
|
.I saved
|
.I default
|
.I changeable
]
.I special
.br
.B /bin/rzdisk
.B \-h
.br
.B /bin/rzdisk
.B \-i
.I special
.br
.B /bin/rzdisk
.B \-r
.I LBN
.I special
.br
.B /bin/rzdisk
.B \-s
.I LBN
.I length
.I special
.SH Description
.NXR "rzdisk utility"
.NXR "SCSI disk" "managing"
The 
.PN rzdisk 
utility, a SCSI disk maintenance program, formats a SCSI disk,
scans a SCSI disk for bad blocks, and reassigns bad blocks on a 
SCSI disk.
.PP
The 
.I special 
file argument is a raw device pathname.  You must specify an unmounted
c partition of a character device special file (for example, 
.PN /dev/rrz3c
).  
.SH Options
.NXR "rzdisk utility" "options"
.TP
.B -c
Changes disk parameters.
.IP
If the
.I ask
argument isn't specified, the disk parameters are set to the default values.
When the
.I ask
argument is specified, you are interactively asked about each field marked as
changeable in each page having changeable parameters.  In both cases, you are
asked whether to save the parameters on disk.  If you answer 'yes', the
parameters are saved on the disk which also updates the current parameters.
Otherwise, only the current parameters are updated.  You must save the
parameters if you want them to be preserved when the system is power cycled.
Also note, the direct-access device format parameters (Page 3) and the rigid
disk drive geometry parameters (Page 4) only get saved after formatting the
drive, regardless of whether you said 'yes' to saving the parameters.
.TP
.B -d
Reads defect lists from the disk.
.IP
This option allows you to get defect lists from the disk in either
.I bfi
(bytes from index),
.I sector,
or
.I block,
formats.
.TP
.B -g
Gets parameters from the disk.
.IP
This option allows you to get either
.I current,
.I saved,
.I default,
or
.I changeable
parameters from the disk.  The program displays the parameters of all
pages supported by the drive.
.IP
The
.I changeable
parameters are those fields which can be changed.  Any field displayed
with a '1' value in it can be changed.
.IP
The
.I default
parameters are those parameters supplied by the vendor.
.IP
The
.I current
parameters are those parameters which you are currently running with.  These
parameters are setup from the 
.I saved
parameters when the drive is powered on.
.IP
The
.I saved
parameters are those parameters which have been saved on the disk.  These
parameters get used each time the drive is powered on.
.TP
.B -f
Formats a SCSI hard disk (see Restrictions).
.IP
Since Digital ships the SCSI disk already formatted, only use this option
if you have encountered a serious problem and must reformat the disk.
You can format a disk with the 
.I vendor 
(manufacturer) defect list
or with the 
.I known 
(vendor and grown) defect list.  The 
.I grown
defect list contains any blocks that may have been reassigned
during the life of the SCSI disk drive.  When formatting
a disk, you must specify the raw device pathname.
.IP
The following example reformats the disk on drive 3 using the known
defect list:
.EX 0
/bin/rzdisk \-f known /dev/rrz3c 
.EE
.IP
The \fI-f\fP option with no additional arguments formats a SCSI floppy
diskette (see Restrictions).  New floppy diskettes are usually not
formatted.  You need to format each diskette before you can store data
on it.
.IP
The following example shows how to format a floppy diskette in
RX23 drive one:
.EX 
/bin/rzdisk -f /dev/rrzlc
.EE
The floppy format operation is interactive.  The program
.PN rzdisk
will guide you through formatting the diskette.
.TP
.B -i
Requests inquiry data from the disk.
.IP
This option causes the program to dump all inquiry data returned from
the disk.  The information dumped includes the peripheral device type,
the device type qualifier, the removable medium field, the version
number, vendor identification, product information, and the firmware
revision level.
.TP
.B -h
Calls the HELP menu to the screen.
.TP
.B -r
Reassigns a bad block on the disk (see Restrictions).
.IP
When reassigning a bad block, you must specify the 
.I LBN,
which is a unique number (decimal notation) that represents the disk block
as reported in the errorlog file, and the raw device pathname.
.IP
The following example reassigns block 222658 on the c partition of drive 3:
.EX 0
/bin/rzdisk \-r 222658 /dev/rrz3c 
.EE
.IP
The program
.PN rzdisk
reads the specified
.I LBN
prior to reassigning the block.  If
.PN rzdisk
reads valid data from the block, then the block is not actually
bad or the SCSI driver already reassigned the block.  In this case,
.PN rzdisk
asks if the reassignment should be canceled.  Answer yes to
cancel the reassignment.   This prevents double reassignment and
replacement of good blocks.   
.TP
.B -s
Scans for bad blocks on a specified area of the disk.
.IP
When scanning a disk, you must specify the 
.I LBN,
which is a unique number (decimal notation) that represents the disk block
relative to the start of the partition, the
.I length,
and the raw device pathname of the partition to scan.
.IP
To start scanning from the first block of the specified partition, 
use the number 0 to represent the
.I LBN.
When the number 0 is specified, the scan starts at the first block
of the specified partition. 
.IP
The
.I length
is a decimal number that indicates how many 512-byte blocks to scan.
To scan up to and including the last block of the specified partition, 
use the number \-1 to represent the
.I length.
By specifying the 
.I length, 
you define the scope of the scan within the identified partition.
.IP
The following example scans the first ten blocks of the
entire disk (c partition) on drive 3:
.EX 0
/bin/rzdisk 0 10 \-s /dev/rrz3c
.EE
The following example scans the entire disk (\fBc\fP partion) on drive 3:
.EX 0
/bin/rzdisk 0 -1 \-s /dev/rrz3c
.EE
.DT
.SH Diagnostics
The
.PN rzdisk
program generates messages when the user is not privileged, when the
.I LBN
is not in the specified partition, and when the length exceeds the
size of the partition.
.SH Restrictions
You must have super-user privileges to run the 
.PN rzdisk
program.
.PP
You should not have to format your system disk.
.PP
The system should be in single-user mode and the file systems on the
disk should be unmounted when running the
.PN rzdisk
program, except when formatting floppy diskettes.  
.PP
Use the
.B \-f
option with caution and only if the SCSI hard disk drive seems corrupted.
Be aware that when you format a disk, all resident data is destroyed.  
.PP
Digital supports formatting, writing, and reading of High Density
(HD) 3.5 inch diskettes in the RX23 and RX26 disk drives, or 5.25 inch
diskettes in the RX33 disk drive.
.PP
Digital supports reading, but not formatting or writing, of Double
Density (DD) 3.5 inch diskettes in the RX23 and RX26 disk drives
or 5.25 inch diskettes in the RX33 disk drive.  Reliable reading of
DD diskettes requires they be written only on a double density drive
and have not been overwritten by an RX23, RX26, RX33, or other
high density drive.  This restriction occurs because of differences
in the write heads between DD and HD drives.  Data written by a DD
drive cannot be completely overwritten by a HD drive.
.PP
This same restriction applies to the RX33 5.25 inch diskettes when using
low density (48 TPI - Tracks Per Inch) diskettes.  Diskettes overwritten
on different machines may suffer read failures from reduced signal-to-noise
ratios.  So long as a diskette is formatted and written on a single machine,
there should be no problem.
.PP
The 
.B \-r 
option is supported only with those SCSI disks that support the reassign
block command.
.SH See Also
dkio(4), rz(4), chpt(8), mount(8), restore(8), uerf(8)
.br
\fIGuide to the Error Logger\fP
