.\" SCCSID: @(#)sa.8	8.2	4/9/91
.TH sa 8
.SH Name
sa, accton \- print process accounting statistics
.SH Syntax
.B /etc/sa
[
.I options
] [ 
.I file 
]
.PP
.B /etc/accton 
[ 
.I file 
]
.SH Arguments
.IP \fIfile\fR 8
With an argument naming an existing
.I file,
.PN accton
causes system accounting information for
every process executed to be placed at the end of the file.
If no argument is given, accounting is turned off.
.SH Description
.NXR "sa command"
.NXR "accton command"
.NXR "accounting file" "maintaining"
.PP
The
.PN sa
command
reports on, cleans up, and generally maintains accounting files.
.PP
The
.PN sa
is able to condense the information in 
.PN /usr/adm/acct
into a summary file 
.PN /usr/adm/savacct ,
which contains a count of the
number of times each command was called and the time resources consumed.
This condensation is desirable because on a large system
.PN /usr/adm/acct 
can grow by 100 blocks per day.
The summary file is normally read before the accounting file,
so the reports include all available information.
.PP
If a file name is given as the last argument, that file will be treated
as the accounting file.  The file 
.PN /usr/adm/acct 
is the default.
.PP
Output fields are labeled: \*(lqcpu\*(rq for the sum of user+system time
(in cpu seconds), \*(lqre\*(rq for real time (also in cpu seconds),
\*(lqk\*(rq for cpu-time averaged core usage (in 1k units),
\*(lqavio\*(rq for average number of I/O operations per execution.
With options fields labeled \*(lqtio\*(rq for total I/O operations,
\*(lqk*sec\*(rq for cpu storage integral (kilo-core seconds), \*(lqu\*(rq and \*(lqs\*(rq
for user and system cpu time alone (both in cpu seconds) will sometimes appear.
.SH Options
.NXR "sa command" "options"
.IP \-a 8
List all command names including those containing unprintable characters and 
those used only once. By default,
.PN sa
places all command names containing unprintable characters and those used only once
under the name `***other.'
.IP \-b
Sort output by sum of user and system time divided by number of calls.
Default sort is by sum of user and system times.
.IP \-c
Besides total user, system, and real time for each command, print percentage
of total time over all commands.
.IP \-d
Sort by average number of disk I/O operations.
.IP \-D
Print and sort by total number of disk I/O operations.
.IP \-f
Force no interactive threshold compression with 
.PN \-v 
option.
.IP \-i
Do not read in summary file.
.IP \-j
Instead of total minutes for each category, give seconds per call.
.IP \-k
Sort by cpu-time average memory usage.
.IP \-K
Print and sort by cpu-storage integral.
.IP \-l
Separate system and user time; normally they are combined.
.IP \-m
Print number of processes and number of CPU minutes for each user.
.IP \-n
Sort by number of calls.
.IP \-r
Reverse order of sort.
.IP \-s
Merge accounting file into summary file
.PN /usr/adm/savacct
when done.
.IP \-t
For each command, report ratio of real time 
to the sum of user and system times. 
If the sum of user and system times is 
too small to report, `*ignore*' appears in this field. 
.IP \-u
Superseding all other flags, print for each command in the accounting file the
user ID and command name.
.IP \-v
Followed by a number
.I n,
types the name of each command used
.I n
times or fewer.
Await a reply from the terminal; if it begins with `y', add the command to
the category `**junk**.' This is used to strip out garbage.
.dt
.SH Restrictions
Accounting is suspended when there is less than 2% free
space on disk.  Accounting resumes when free space rises
above 4%.
.SH Files
.TP 17
.PN /usr/adm/acct
Raw accounting
.TP
.PN /usr/adm/savacct
Summary
.TP
.PN /usr/adm/usracct
Per-user summary
.SH See Also
acct(2), ac(8)
