.TH svcsetup 8
.SH Name
svcsetup \- set up the svc.conf file
.SH Syntax
.B /usr/etc/svcsetup [[\-d \fIdirectory\fP] \-o \fIname_service_order\fP]
.SH Description
The 
.PN svcsetup 
.NXR "svcsetup" "command"
command allows you to print and modify the contents
of the 
.PN svc.conf 
file on the current system.  This file must
be modified when adding or removing a naming service, such as
Yellow Pages or BIND/Hesiod. The security parameters also included
in the 
.PN svc.conf
file can only be changed by 
.PN secsetup . 
Changes take effect immediately.  
.PP
Modifications to
this file can also be made via an editor.
.PP
You can supply the name service ordering for all databases from the
command line using the \f(CW\-o\fR option. The combination of the
\f(CW\-o\fR and \f(CW\-d\fR options allows you 
to set up a diskless client
from the diskless server.
.PP
When you run 
.PN svcsetup
interactively, and choose 
.PN modify
from the configuration menu,
you can choose to modify any number of the databases listed
by entering each number separated by space at the prompt. When choosing
a naming service order for a database, enter one number from the menu 
choices shown which corresponds to the naming service order desired.
.SH Options
.NXR "svc.conf command" "options"
.IP "\-d \fIdirectory\fR" 5
These two arguments are required if you are setting up a diskless client
from the diskless server. The \fIdirectory\fR is the full pathname of
the root directory for your system (a diskless client) on the diskless
server. The following is an example of a root directory for a diskless
client named
.PN orange:
.EX 10
/dlclient0/orange.root
.EE
.IP "\-o \fIname_service_order\fR"
This is the name service order to be set for all database entries in 
the 
.PN svc.conf
file. The name service order can be one of the following, which are the
only valid strings for 
.I name_service_order 
argument:
.IP \(bu 4 
local
.IP \(bu
local,yp
.IP \(bu
local,bind
.SH Restrictions
The recommended configuration is that you have
.PN local
as the first entry for all databases.
.PP
You must have 
.PN local 
.NXR "svcsetup" "restrictions"
as the first entry for the 
.PN passwd
and
.PN hosts
databases.
.PP
You must have 
.PN yp
as the entry for the
.PN netgroup
database.
.PP
You must have either 
.PN local
or 
.PN bind
as the entry for the
.PN auth
database.
.PP
You must be superuser to run 
.PN svcsetup .
.SH Files
.TP 20
.PN /etc/svc.conf 
Services order configuration file
.TP 22
.PN /usr/sys/h/svcinfo.h
System header file 
.SH See Also
svc.conf(5)
