.TH timedc 8
.SH Name
timedc \- timed control program
.SH Syntax
.B /usr/etc/timedc
[ \fIcommand\fR [ \fIargument\fR ...]]
.SH Description
The 
.PN timedc
program controls the operation of the 
.PN timed
.NXR "timedc" "timed control program"
daemon.  If you run
.PN timedc
without any arguments, 
.PN timedc
enters interactive mode and
displays the 
.PN timedc>
prompt.  
.PP
If you supply a
.PN timedc 
command on the command line,
.PN timedc
runs the command and then exits.  If you redirect the
standard input of
.PN timedc
from an interactive terminal to a file,
.PN timedc
interprets the contents of the file as a list of 
commands separated by carriage returns and 
terminated with an EOF character.
.SH Commands
?[\fIcommand\fR...]
.br
.TP 20
help[\fIcommand\fR...]
.NXR "timedc" "options"
Prints a short description of each command specified in the 
argument list.  If no arguments are given, a list
of the recognized commands is printed.
.TP
clockdiff[\fIhost\fR...]
Computes the differences between the clock of the host machine
and the clocks of the machines given as arguments.
.TP 20
trace[ on | off ]
Enables or disables the logging of incoming messages to 
.PN timed . 
The 
.PN trace
command logs messages in the file
.PN /usr/adm/timed.log .
.TP 20
[ incr | decr ] [ \-cd ][\fIminutes:\fR][\fIseconds.\fR][\fImicroseconds\fR]
Increments or decrements the value of the local clock so that
the clock gains or loses the specified amount of time.
.RS
.TP 10
.B \-c
Adjusts the local clock continuously.  Adjustments specified with the
.PN \-c
switch should be on the order of microseconds, and are added
or subtracted from the local clock in small stages.  This type
of adjustment avoids large instantaneous jumps and guarantees that 
the graph of local clock time versus real time remains
continuous.
.IP
The following example increments the local clock continuously
by 500 microseconds:
.EX0
/etc/timedc incr \-c 500
.EE
.TP 10
.B \-d
Adjusts the local clock instantaneously.  Adjustments specified with
the 
.PN \-d
switch should be on the order of seconds, and are added or subtracted
from the local clock at once.  The graph of local clock time versus
real time is discontinuous.
.NXR(e) "timedc" 
.IP
The following example decrements the local clock discontinuously
by five minutes and two seconds:
.EX0
/etc/timedc decr \-d 5:2
.EE
.RE
.TP 20
msite
Indicates which site the master is running on currently.
.TP 20
quit
Exits from the 
.PN timedc
program.
.SH Diagnostics
.B "?Ambiguous command"
.br
Abbreviation matches more than one command.
.PP
.B "?Invalid command"
.br
No match was found.
.PP
.B "?Privileged command"
.br
Command can be executed by root only.
.SH Files
.TP 35
.PN /usr/adm/timed.log
Tracing file for 
.PN timed
.TP 35
.PN /usr/adm/timed.masterlog
Log file for master
.PN timed
.SH See Also
date(1), adjtime(2), settimeofday(2), timed(8)
