.\" SCCSID: @(#)trigger.8	8.1	9/11/90
.TH trigger 8 
.SH Name
trigger \- trigger a target node to request a down-line load
.SH Syntax 
.B /etc/trigger 
.I node
[ 
.I options
]
.SH Description
.NXR "trigger command"
.NXR "node" "triggering down-line load request"
The 
.PN trigger 
command triggers the bootstrap mechanism of a target node, 
causing the target to request a down-line load.  Once a target
node is triggered, it loads itself in whatever manner its primary
loader is programmed to operate.
The target node could request a down-line
load from the host that just triggered it or from another adjacent 
node, or the target node could load itself
from its own mass storage device. 
.PP
The 
.I node 
argument is the name or address of the target node.  A node name
consists of from one to six alphanumeric characters.
For single networks, a node address consists of a 
decimal integer (1-1023).  For multiple networks, a
node address consist of two decimal integers (n.n), 
where the first indicates the network number (1-63), 
and the second indicates the node address (1-1023).
.PP
The 
.PN trigger 
command requires the identification of the service circuit over
which the load is performed, the Ethernet 
hardware address of the target node, and the service password needed 
to gain access to the target.  This information is included in 
the nodes database entry for the target node.
A node entry is defined with the 
.PN addnode 
command.  For further information, see 
.MS addnode 8 .
Alternatively, you can choose not to include a 
target node's service password
in the nodes database for security reasons.
You must therefore specify this 
value in the command line by using the 
.B \-p 
option.  
.SH Options
.IP \-p   
Uses the specified service and password (next arguments) 
in accessing the target node.
.SH Examples
.NXR(e) "node" "triggering down-line load request"
This command triggers node Bangor to issue a down-line load request:
.EX
# /etc/trigger bangor <RET>
.EE
.SH See Also
mop_mom(8), addnode(8), load(8), remnode(8), getnode(8), ccr(8) 
.br
.I Guide to Local Area Transport Servers
