.\" SCCSID: @(#)uerf.8 @(#)uerf.8	8.2     1/15/91 	
.TH uerf 8
.SH Name
uerf \- ULTRIX error report formatter  
.SH Syntax
.B /etc/uerf [ option ... ]
.SH Description
.NXR "uerf command"
.NXR "error report formatter"
The 
.PN uerf
command prints a record of system events.  
These events include error messages relating to the system hardware 
and the software kernel as
well as information about system status, startup, and diagnostics.
.SH Options
.IP "\fB-A \fIadapter ...\fR" 12
Selects adapter and device controller errors.  
All adapter error types are selected if none is specified. 
.RS 14 
.IP "\fBaie\fR" 7
Reports errors for BVP-type controller.
.IP "\fBaio\fR"
Reports errors for BVP-type controller.
.IP "\fBbla\fR"
Reports errors for the BI LESI adapter.
.IP "\fBbua\fR"
Reports errors for the BI UNIBUS adapter.
.IP "\fBnmi\fR"
Reports errors for the Nautilus memory interconnect.
.IP "\fBuba\fR"
Reports errors for the VAX UNIBUS adapter.
.RE
.IP "\fB-c\fI\ classes\fR" 12
Selects classes of events.  
.RS 14 
.IP \fBerr\fR 7
Reports all hardware- and software-detected errors. 
.IP \fBmaint\fR 
Reports any event that occurs during system maintenance, for
example, running the on-line functional exercisers.
.IP \fBoper\fR 
Reports information on system status, autoconfiguration messages,
device status or error messages, time stamps, and system startup and
shutdown messages.
.RE
.IP "\fB-D\fI\ disks\fR" 12
Selects the mscp or scsi disk device type, for example, ra60 or rx23, or class, for
example, ra or rx, about which to report errors.  If you do not specify any
parameters, all disk types are reported.  See
.MS ra 4 
for a list of supported
.IP "\fB-f\fI\ filename\fR"
Outputs error information from the specified file rather than the
default errorlog file 
/usr/adm/syserr/syserr.\fIhostname\fR.
Hostname is the name of the local system.  Use this option to look at
old or backup errorlog files not in the default location 
/usr/adm/syserr. 
You can also use this option to access the default single-user errorlog
file 
/syserr.\fIhostname\fR.
Specify the full path name for the file.  Do not use the 
.B \-n 
option with this option.
.IP \fB-h\fR
Displays a brief help message.  If you specify any other option
with the 
.B \-h
option, it is ignored. 
.IP \fB-H\fI\ host\fR
Selects errors for the system indicated.  Use the 
.B \-H 
option when you are logging errors from multiple remote systems to a
single errorlog file on the local host.
.IP "\fB-M\fI\ mainframe_errors\fR"
Selects mainframe error types.  If you do not specify any parameters,
all error types are reported.
.RS 14 
.IP \fBcpu\fR 7
Reports CPU-related errors such as machine checks.
.IP \fBmem\fR 
Reports memory-related errors such as single-bit CRD (corrected read
data) and double-bit uncorrectable errors.
.RE
.IP \fB-n\fR 12
Displays errors as they occur in real time before logging them
in the errorlog file.  This option is useful in monitoring errors 
while a disk or tape exerciser is run.  You cannot use this option 
with the \fB\-f\fR option.
.IP "\fB-o\fI\ output\fR"
Outputs errors in brief, full, or terse format.  The default
output is brief.
.RS 14 
.IP \fBbrief\fR 7
Reports error information in a short format.
.IP \fBfull\fR
Reports all available information for each entry.
.IP \fBterse\fR 
Reports error information and displays register values, but does not
translate.
.RE
.IP "\fB-O\fI\ operating_system_events\fR" 12
Selects operating system events such as panics and exceptions and
faults.  If you do not specify any parameters, all ULTRIX operating
system events are reported. Reports are as follows:
.PD 0
.RS 14 
.IP \fBaef\fR 7 
Arithmetic exception faults
.IP \fBast\fR 
Asynchronous trap exception faults
.IP \fBbpt\fR 
Breakpoint instruction faults
.IP \fBcmp\fR 
Compatibility mode faults
.IP \fBpag\fR 
Page faults
.IP \fBpif\fR 
Privileged instruction faults
.IP \fBpro\fR 
Protection faults
.IP \fBptf\fR 
Page table faults
.IP \fBraf\fR 
Reserved address faults
.IP \fBrof\fR 
Reserved operand faults
.IP \fBscf\fR 
System call exception faults
.IP \fBseg\fR 
Segmentation faults
.IP \fBtra\fR 
Trace exception faults
.IP \fBxfc\fR  
Reports xfc instruction faults
.PD
.RE
.IP "\fB-R \fI\ reverse chronological order\fR" 12
Outputs selected error information in reverse chronological
order.
.IP "\fB-r\fI\ records\fR" 
Reports errors for the selected record codes.  Valid codes
are: 
.PD 0
.sp
.RS 14
.IP "Hardware-Detected Errors" 6 
.sp
.IP 100
Machine check 
.IP 101
Memory corrected read data/read data substitute (crd/rds) 
.IP 102
Disk errors 
.IP 103
Tape errors 
.IP 104
Device controller errors 
.IP 105
Adapter errors
.IP 106
Bus errors
.IP 107
Stray interrupts 
.IP 108
Asynchronous write errors 
.IP 109
Exceptions/faults 
.IP 110
8800 EMM exceptions/faults 
.IP 111
Console timeouts 
.IP 112
Stack dump
.IP 113
ka650 error and status
.IP 114
6200 vector 60
.IP 115
6200 vector 54
.IP 116
ka420 error and status registers
.IP 117
ka3100 error and status registers
.IP 118
6400 vector 60
.IP 119
6400 vector 54
.IP 120
ka60 mbus error
.IP 121
ka60 error and status registers
.IP 130
General Error and status registers
.IP 131
General Interrupt 60 errors 
.IP 132
General Interrupt 54 errors
.IP 133
v9000 syndrome error
.IP 134
v9000 Keep Alive Failure
.IP 135
v9000 clock error entry
.IP 136
v9000 scan entry
.IP 137
v9000 configuration entry
.IP 138
Vector Entry
.IP 200
Panics (bug checks) 
.IP 201
ci ppd info
.IP 202
scs events
.sp 
.IP "Informational ASCII Messages"
.sp 
.IP 250
Informational 
.IP 251
8600/8650 snapshot taken 
.sp 
.IP "Operational Messages"
.sp 
.IP 300
Start up 
.IP 301
Shutdown
.IP 310
Time change 
.IP 350
Diagnostic information 
.IP 351
Repair information
.PD
.RE
.IP "\fB-s\fI\ sequence_numbers\fR" 12
Reports errors for selected sequence numbers.  When used by
itself, this option will give all records with specified sequence
numbers in the file.
.IP \-S
Produces a summary report of selected events.
.IP "\fB-t\fI\ time_range\fR"
Selects errors for the specified time range.  Without the
.B \-t 
option, the 
.PN uerf 
command processes the errorlog file from beginning to end.  A
start date or time or an end date or time must be specified with the 
\fB\-t\fR option.  
For partial entries, the default date is the current date, the default
start time is 00:00:00, and the default end time is 23:59:59.
The format is as follows:
.IP
.B uerf \-t 
s:dd-mmm-yyyy,hh:mm:ss e:dd-mmm-yyyy,hh:mm:ss
.IP
Where:
.PD 0
.RS 14 
.IP \fBs\fR 7 
Specifies the start date and time   
.IP \fBe\fR 
Specifies the end date and time
.IP \fBdd\fR 
Day 
.IP \fBmmm\fR 
Month
.IP \fByyyy\fR 
Year
.IP \fBhh\fR 
Hour
.IP \fBmm\fR 
Minute
.IP \fBss\fR 
Second
.PD
.RE
.IP "\fB-T\fI\ tapes\fR" 12
Selects the tmscp or scsi tape types (tk50 or tz30, for example) or class (tk
or tz, for example)
for which to report errors.  If you do not specify any parameters,
all tape types are reported.  See 
.MS tms 4
for a list of supported tmscp tape types. 
.IP "\fB-u\fI\ unit number\fR" 12
Selects records by unit number. This option can be used with 
.B \-D and/or 
.B \-T option.
.IP \fB-x\fR
Excludes specified selection options from the report, whether they
appear before or after the 
. \-x 
option.  This option does not affect the 
\fB\-f, \-h, \-H, \-n, \-o, \-R, \-t\fR 
options.
.IP \fB-Z\fR
Displays the entry in hex format.
.SH Restrictions
.NXR "uerf command" "restricted"
The
.PN uerf
command uses the data files uerf.bin, uerf.hlp, and uerf.err.
The uerf.bin file is the event information data base, the uerf.hlp
file is the help file, and the uerf.err file is the error message
file.
.PP
The 
.PN uerf
command searches for the 
.PN uerf
data files as follows:
.RS 5
.IP 1. 4
If 
.PN uerf
is invoked with a full pathname, the
.PN uerf
first checks that directory for the
.PN uerf
data files.
.IP 2. 
Then the 
.PN /etc 
directory is checked.
.IP 3. 
And finally, directories specified in the Shell PATH environment variable
are checked.
.RE
.PP
The 
.PN uerf
command outputs the contents of the errorlog file in the
directory specified in 
.PN /etc/elcsd.conf .  
To report on any other errorlog file, such as the single-user 
errorlog file, you must use 
.PN uerf
with the 
.B \-f 
option. 
.PP
Do not specify any other option with the 
.B \-h
option.
.PP
You cannot use the 
.B \-n 
option and the 
.B \-f
option together. 
.PP
Some hardware and system-related errors are logged as ASCII
informational messages, for example, MASSBUS device errors and UNIBUS
communication device errors.  Use the 
.B \-r 
option with record type 250 to output these errors.
.SH Examples
The following example produces a report containing all uba and
nmi errors:
.EX
uerf \-A uba,nmi
.EE
.PP
The following example produces a report containing all error
events excluding logged operating system errors and 
operator and maintenance class errors:
.EX
uerf -O -x -c oper,maint
.EE
.PP
The following example produces an error report from the named file:
.EX
uerf -f /usr/adm/syslog/olderrorfile
.EE
.PP
The following examples show how to produce error reports for
specific record codes:
.EX
uerf -r 100,102

uerf -r 100-109
.EE
.PP 
The following examples show how to produce error reports using
the \-t option.  This example lists all errors between 
10:47 a.m. on April 13, 1986 and 5:30 p.m. on April 20, 1986.
.EX
uerf -t s:13-apr-1986,10:47:00 e:20-apr-1986,17:30:00
.EE
The following example produces an error report for all logged
errors on the current day and year, which starts at 1:20 p.m. 
and ends at the current time.
.EX
uerf -t s:13:20
.EE
.PP
The next example produces an error report for all logged errors
and displays it in reverse chronological order, starting with
the current date and time.
.EX
uerf -R
.EE
.SH Files
.TP 37 
.PN /usr/adm/syserr/syserr.\fIsystem name\fR
multiuser default errorlog file
.TP 
.PN /etc/uerf.err
uerf error message file
.TP
/etc/uerf.hlp
uerf help file
.TP
.PN /etc/uerf.bin
event information data base file
.SH See Also
elcsd.conf(5), elcsd(8), eli(8)
.br
\fIGuide to the Error Logger\fP
