.\" SCCSID: @(#)uuaids.8c	8.1	9/11/90
.TH uuaids 8c
.SH Name
uucompact, uumkspool, uurespool, uupoll \- uucp utilities 
.SH Syntax
.B uucompact
.B \-s\fIsystem\fP 
.br
.B uumkspool
.I system ...
.br
.B uurespool
[ 
.B \-t\fI#\fP 
]
.br
.B uupoll
.I system ...
.SH Description
.NXR "uuaids keyword"
.NXR "uucompact utility"
.NXR "uumkspool utility"
.NXR "uurespool utility"
.NXR "uupoll utility"
.NXR "uucp utility" "spool directories and"
.NXAM "uucp utility" "uucompact utility"
All of the 
.PN uucp
commands are located in 
.PN /usr/lib/uucp .
.PP
The
.PN uucompact
command compacts uucp system spool directories 
and associated subdirectories. If 
.I system 
is ALL, then all existing uucp system spool 
directories are compacted.  
Otherwise, only the specified system spool directory is compacted.
If no system is specified, 
.PN /usr/spool/uucp/sys 
is compacted.  If 
.PN uucompact
is stopped before it is finished,
it can be restarted without reprocessing directories. 
The
.PN uucompact
command continues 
processing where it left off during it's previous instantiation.
.PP
The
.PN uumkspool
command makes a per system spool directory and associated subdirectories
for each of the specified systems.
For example, if \fIsystem\fP is mk3 and if the local system name
is penny, the following directories are created:
.RS
.EX
 /usr/spool/uucp/sys/mk3
 /usr/spool/uucp/sys/mk3/C.
 /usr/spool/uucp/sys/mk3/X.
 /usr/spool/uucp/sys/mk3/D.
 /usr/spool/uucp/sys/mk3/D.penny
 /usr/spool/uucp/sys/mk3/D.penny
.EE
.RE
The
.PN uurespool
command moves files from old spool directories to  new spool
directories.
Because the structure of the spool directories has changed from older 
versions of 
.PN uucp ,
it is necessary to respool old spooled files
to new spool directories in at least two instances: 
.IP \(bu 5
When installing the current version of 
.PN uucp. 
.IP \(bu 5
When creating a new system spool directory for each system.  
.PP
In the latter case, it is necessary to move files from 
.PN /usr/spool/uucp/sys/DEFAULT
to the new spool directories.  To ease this task,
.PN uurespool
moves files that have been spooled
in one of 4 formats and respools them under the new spooling structure.
The format is specified by the \f(CW\-t#\fP option, where 
the number sign (#) can be any one of the following:
.IP \(bu 4
Original spool - All files are in 
.PN /usr/spool/uucp .
.IP \(bu
Split spool - Contains the subdirectories 
.PN C. , 
.PN X. , 
.PN D. , 
.PN D.local , 
.PN D.localX .
.IP \(bu
Modified split spool -  Contains all subdirectories 
listed in split spool, and 
.PN STST. , 
.PN TM. , 
.PN C./OTHERS .
.IP \(bu
Used when a new system directory has been created and
spool files must be moved from the DEFAULT directory
to the new system directory.
.PP
The 
.PN uupoll
command forces a connect attempt to the named systems even
if recent attempts have failed, but not if the 
.PN L.sys
file prohibits the call.  For example, the 
.PN L.sys 
file will prohibit the call if it is the wrong time of day.
Thus, the
.PN /usr/spool/uucp/LOGFILE
should be monitored for messages about the connection.
.SH Files
.TP 20
.PN /usr/spool/uucp
Spool directory
.TP 
.PN /usr/spool/uucp/LOGFILE
Logfile
.SH See Also
mail(1), uucp(1c), uux(1c)
