.\" SCCSID: @(#)uuclean.8c	8.1	9/11/90
.TH uuclean 8c
.SH Name
uuclean \- uucp spool directory clean-up
.SH Syntax
\fBuuclean \-p[\fIpre\fR]\fR
[ \fIoptions\fR ... ]
.SH Description
.NXR "uuclean program"
.NXAM "uucp utility" "uuclean program"
.NXR "uucp utility" "spool directories and"
The
.PN uuclean
command scans the spool directory for files with the
specified prefix and deletes all those which are
older than the specified number of hours.
.PP
The
\f(CW\-p\fIpre\fR
argument causes the
.PN uuclean
command to scan for files with
.I pre
as the file prefix.
You can specify up to 10
.PN \-p
arguments.
A
.PN \-p
without any
.I pre
following causes all files older than the
specified time to be deleted.
You must specify at least one
.PN \-p
argument.
.SH Options
.TP 13
\fB\-n\fItime\fP
Delete all files whose age is more than 
.IR time ,
in hours,
(default is 72 hours)
and that have the specified
.I pre 
as their file prefix.	
.TP 13
.B \-m
Send mail to the owner of the file
when it is deleted.
.TP
\fB\-s\fIsystem\fP
Delete files in all directories that are subdirectories
of the per system spool directory that exists for  
.I system.
If ALL is specified, then all system directories are processed.
ALL is the default.
.TP
\fB\-d\fIdirectory\fP
Delete files that reside in the named 
.I directory.
The default directory is
.PN /usr/spool/uucp .
The 
.PN \-s 
option over rides the
.PN \-d 
option.
.PP
The
.PN cron
command typically starts the
.PN uuclean
program.
In earlier versions, a deleted work file (C.file) would 
result in mail to the owner of the work file, regardless of the 
.PN \-m 
option.
Now, notification of deleted work files is sent to the user ID "uucp".
If the 
.PN \-m 
option is used, mail is also sent to the owner.
.SH Examples
Here are some example
.PN uuclean
command lines:
.EX
# \f(CBuuclean \-pLTMP. \-pLOG. \-n4 \-d/usr/spool/uucp\f(CW
# \f(CBuuclean \-d/usr/spool/uucp/.XQTDIR \-p \-n\f(CW
# \f(CBuuclean \-smarkie \-p \-n84\f(CW
.EE
The third example deletes all
.PN uucp
files for the system
.PN markie
that are older than 84 hours.
.SH Files
.TP 22
.PN /usr/lib/uucp
Directory with commands used by uuclean internally
.SH See Also
uucp(1c), uux(1c), cron(8)
