.TH xlator_call 8
.SH Name
xlator_call \- shell script to invoke PostScript translators
.SH Syntax
.B xlator_call
.I datatype
.I orientation
.I pagesize
.I width
.I length
.I indent
.SH Description
This Bourne shell script can be called by the
.PN lpd
line printer daemon to invoke the appropriate translator to convert each
data type to PostScript.
The data type passed by
.PN lpd
may be specified by using the
.PN lpr
command with the \fB\-D\fIdatatype\fR option,
or by using the \fBDa=datatype\fR capability in the
.PN printcap
file.
.PP
For a file in a data syntax to be translated to PostScript, the
.PN xlator_call
script must contain a case branch which recognizes the data type string and
calls a suitable filter.
The supplied
.PN xlator_call
recognizes the ANSI, ASCII, ReGIS and Tektronix 4014 data types.
.SH Arguments
.I datatype
.br
The valid data types are:
.PN ansi , 
.PN ascii , 
.PN postscript , 
.PN regis , 
.PN tek4014 ,
or any other for which a translator has been installed.
.PP
.I orientation
.br
The valid orientations are:
.I
portrait \fRor\fI landscape.
.PP
.I pagesize
.br
The valid page sizes are:
.PN letter , 
.PN a , 
.PN ledger , 
.PN b , 
.PN legal , 
.PN executive , 
.PN a5 , 
.PN a4 , 
.PN a3 , 
.PN b5 ,
or
.PN b4 .
.PP
.I width
.br
The width (in characters) of the page.
.PP
.I length
.br
The length (in lines) of the page.
.PP
.I indent
.br
The amount (in spaces) the output is to be indented.
.PP
All the valid arguments are described in detail by the
.PN lpr(1)
reference page.
.SH Examples
An example shell script is shown below:
.EX
case $datatype in
ansi)
	exec ansi_ps \-F $pagesize \-O $orientation \-e "$@";;
ascii)
	echo "(\\004) cvn {} def"
	exec ln03rof \-w$width \-l$length \-i$indent;;
postscript)
	exec cat;;
tek4014)
	exec tek4014_ps \-F $pagesize \-O $orientation;;
regis)
	exec regis_ps \-F $pagesize \-O $orientation;;
*)
	echo "$0: Translator for data type $datatype not installed" >&2
esac
.EE
.PP
When the shell script is called, the path searched is:
.EX
/usr/local/lib/lpdfilters:/usr/ucb:/bin:/usr/bin:
                            /usr/lib:/usr/lib/lpdfilters
.EE
.SH Files
.TP 40
.PN /usr/lib/lpdfilters/xlator_call
The
.PN xlator_call
script
.SH See Also
lno3rof(8), printcap(5), ansi_ps(8), lpd(8)
