.TH auth 5 
.SH Name
auth \- auth database
.SH Description
.NXR "auth database"
.NXR "auth database" "format"
The 
.PN auth 
database
is a repository of security-relevant information about each
user of the system. This database contains the encrypted password
associated with the user's account in addition to a list of
assorted capabilities.
The database is stored as an 
.MS ndbm 3
database
in the files 
.PN /etc/auth.pag 
and 
.PN /etc/auth.dir .
Records are retrieved
with the 
.PN getauthuid
library routine.  Access to the database
is restricted to the superuser and members of the group 
.PN authread .
.PP
Auth records may be converted to an ASCII representation whose format is:
.EX
1000:4KvidFYwovnwp3j8lll78dC1:1920129:3600:2678400:03:0:1000:0:00:00
.EE
The first field is the UID of the entry that is used as the key into
the database. Then follows:
.TP 15
Encrypted Password
This is the user's encrypted password. Whether this password or the one
from the 
.PN /etc/passwd 
file is actually used is determined by the security
level that the system is running at.
.TP 15
Password Modification Time
This is the \fItime(2)\fP the password was last set.
.TP 15
Minimum Password Lifetime
This is the minimum number of seconds which must elapse between
setting passwords.
.TP 15
Maximum Password Lifetime
This is the maximum period of time for which the password will be
valid.
.TP 15
Account Mask
These are capabilities pertaining to the account itself.  They are:
.RS 18
.PP
1 A_ENABLE: this account is enabled.
.br
2 A_CHANGE_PASSWORD: The user can change his or her password.
.br
4 A_ENTER_PASSWORD: The user is not required to use machine-generated passwords.
.RE
.TP 15
Login Failure Count
This is the count of unsuccessful login attempts since the last
successful login.
.TP 15
Audit ID
Positive integer identifier used in generating audit records for
the user.
.TP 15
Audit Control
See the 
.MS audcntl 2 
reference page, SET_APROC_CNTL section for more
information.
.TP
Audit Mask
Determines which events will be audited for the user. See the
.MS audcntl 2 
and 
.MS audit 4
reference pages for more information.
.SH Restrictions
Only the superuser and members of the group
.PN authread
may read information from the auth database.  Only the superuser may
modify the auth database.
.SH Files
.PN /etc/auth.[pag,dir]
.br
.PN /etc/passwd
.br
.PN /etc/svc.conf
.SH See Also
audcntl(2), getauthuid(3), getpwent(3), edauth(8)
