.\" SCCSID: @(#)cdfs.5	7.1	4/26/90
.TH cdfs 5cdfs
.SH Name 
cdfs \- The CD-ROM (Compact Disc Read Only Memory) File System 
.SH Description
.NXR "cdfs file"
.NXR "CDFS - CD-ROM File System"
The ISO 9660 standard describes volume and file structures for information
exchange on CD-ROM's. CDFS supports mounting, as another local file system
type, CD-ROM's which comply to the standard. Once mounted, files and
directories recorded on the CD-ROM become accessible in a read-only manner
through system calls and commands. Support of the standard is limited
to level 2 interchange with the exeception of multiple volume semantics, 
according to ISO 9660.
Refer to the international standard ISO 9660-1988 for addtional information
pertaining to the actual standard.
.PP
The
.PN CDFS
file system behaves the same as any read-only file system, and 
additionally supports the following semantics.
The
.PN CDFS
can be exported by NFS, and supports users being able to mount other
file system types (UFS, NFS, CDFS) onto directories recorded on the CDFS
volume. Volumes recorded in ISO 9660-1988 (interchange level 2)
or High Sierra Group (HSG) format are supported. The data of a mounted
volume which is recorded as part of a multiple volume set or consists of
a single volume set is made available.
Both local and remote execution is supported for non-interleaved
files. Data contained in files recorded in interleave mode and
non-interleave mode is available through read(2). If demand page execution 
of interleaved files is required, the user can either copy the file
to magnetic storage, or execute the file over NFS.
.PP
Since
.PN CDFS
is a configurable kernel option, the following two lines must exist
in the systems configuration file:
.nf

   options CDFS

   pseudo-device	cdfs

.fi
If the system configuration does not contain the above lines,
refer to the 
\fIGuide to Configuration File Maintenance\fP
for a detailed explaination of how to
modify the configuration file and rebuild a kernel.
.SH See Also
mount(8cdfs)
