.TH DDIF 5
.SH Name
DDIF \- Digital Document Interchange Format (DDIF) files
.SH Description
.PP
Digital Document Interchange Format (DDIF) is a DDIS/ASN.1 encoding for
the interchange of revisable compound documents with document processing
systems.  DDIF is also a document output format, a storage format for
user documents residing on a disk, and a compound document
format.
.PP
The purpose of DDIF is to allow the creation of compound documents and also
to serve as a standard intermediate format for the conversion of documents
based on other formats.  For example, a simple ASCII text file can be
converted to DDIF, and the DDIF file can then be converted to PostScript.
A DDIF document can also be converted to ASCII.
.PP
DDIF files are documents or portions of compound documents.  A DDIF
document is considered a simple document if it consists of one
file.  A DDIF document is considered a compound document if it
consists of more than one file, the master of which must be a DDIF
file.  
.PP
A DDIF file can contain storage addresses (for example,
filename) of other files, which must be DDIF, ASCII text,
binary, or PostScript.  References to DOTS files is not supported.  
.PP
Because a DDIF file can reference another DDIF file and the referenced DDIF
file can reference other DDIF files, a DDIF document can
consist of a tree of files.
.PP
The following commands are used to manipulate DDIF files:
.TP 20
.B cdoc
Provides a set of converters to and from DDIF format.
.TP
.B ctod
Packs DDIF documents into DOTS syntax.  The user can choose to
archive a DDIF document in this manner.  The
.PN ctod
command also copies DDIF files from one location to another.  
.TP
.B dtoc
Copies DDIF files from one location to another.
.TP
.B dxvdoc
Enables user to view DDIF documents. The
.PN dxvdoc
command is used on workstations running ULTRIX UWS software.  The
.PN dxvdoc
command can also display imbedded graphics and image data that is
encoded in the DDIF syntax.
.TP
.B vdoc
Enables user to view DDIF documents.  The
.PN vdoc
command is for use on character-cell terminals.
.PP
DDIF documents can be mailed to other users.
.SH See Also
cdoc(1), ctod(1), dtoc(1), vdoc(1), dxvdoc(1X), DOTS(5), DDIS(5)
.br
