.TH DTIF 5
.SH Name
DTIF \- Digital Table Interchange Format
.SH Description
.NXR "DTIF reference page"
Digital Table Interchange Format (DTIF) is the standard format for the 
storage and interchange of documents that contain data tables, 
formulas, 
and spreadsheets. You can use DTIF to store and retrieve database 
information, interchange spreadsheets, and reference table data in
compound documents.  
.PP
DTIF defines the logical structure and physical layout of a data table,
the values within the table (absolute data and/or expressions), and
presentation attributes (formatting) to be used when displaying or printing
the table. DTIF works with Digital Document Interchange Format (DDIF) 
so that you can store or reference DTIF tables in DDIF-encoded compound 
documents.
.PP
A DTIF document can contain a sequence of one or more tables and is 
uniquely identified by a product name, a version number, and other
descriptive information such as the document's title and creation date.
Each DTIF table is a 2-dimensional display of data values organized
in columns and rows that has its own structure and table data stored in
cells.
.PP
In DTIF documents, attributes specify the type and format of information
pertaining to the data stored in a table. Column attributes describe 
information for all the cells in a particular column, whereas generic 
column attributes can be applied to any column in 
any table that references 
them. Format attributes define the printed 
and displayed presentation of data 
stored in the table.  
Format attributes can also be redefined at the window, 
column, or cell level.
.SH See Also 
CDA(5), DDIF(5), DTIF(5)
.br
.I Compound Document Architecture Manual
