.\" SCCSID: @(#)exports.5nfs	3.4	8/5/88
.TH exports 5nfs
.SH Name
exports \- defines NFS file systems to be exported
.SH Syntax
.B /etc/exports
.SH Description
.NXR "NFS file system" "accessing remotely"
.NXR "exports file" "format"
.NXAM "mountd daemon" "exports file"
The 
.PN /etc/exports
file describes the local file systems and directories
that can be mounted by
remote hosts through the use of the NFS protocol.
The
.PN exports 
file can also be used to restrict access to a particular set of remote
systems.
The
.PN mount
request daemon 
.MS mountd 8nfs
accesses the
.PN exports
file each time it receives a mount request from an NFS client.
.PP
Each entry in the 
.PN /etc/exports 
file consists of a file system or directory
name followed by an optional list of options or
an optional list of identifiers or both. The identifiers 
define which remote hosts can mount that particular file system
or directory.
.\" By convention,
.\" each file system name must be explicitly defined starting
.\" at the root directory of the file system.
The identifiers listed beside the name of each file system or directory 
can be either host names or YP netgroups names.  When the
.PN mountd
daemon receives a mount request from a client,
it searches for a match in the list of identifiers, first by checking
the client host name with the host name identifiers
and second by checking the client host name in a YP netgroups.
When it finds a match,
.PN mountd
makes that file system or directory available to the requesting client.
.PP
The exports file format is defined as follows:
.EX
pathname [-r=#] [-o] [identifier_1 identifier_2 ... identifier_n]
.EE
or
.EX
#anything
.EE
.TP 15
.PN pathname : 
Name of a mounted local file system or a directory of a
mounted local file system . The 
.PN pathname 
must begin in column 1.
.TP
.I options: 
.RS 15
.IP \-r=# 8
Map client superuser access to uid #.  If you want to
allow client superusers access to the file system or
directory with the same permissions as a local superuser, 
use 
.PN \-r=0 .
Use 
.PN \-r=0 
only if you trust the superuser on
the client system.  The default is 
.PN \-r=2 ,
which maps a 
client superuser to nobody.  This limits access to world 
readable files.
.IP \-o
Export file system or directory read-only.
.IP
The options can be applied to both file system and directory 
entries in 
.PN /etc/exports .
.RE
.TP 15
.I identifiers:
Host names or netgroups, or both, separated by white space, that 
specify the access list for this export.  Host names can optionally
contain the local BIND domain name.  For more information on BIND,
see the 
\fIGuide to the BIND/Hesiod Service\fP
.NT
If no hosts or netgroups are specified, the 
.PN mount 
daemon exports this file system or directory to anyone 
requesting it.
.NE
.PP
A number sign (#) anywhere in the line marks a comment that 
extends to the end of that line.
.PP
A whitespace character in the left-most position of a line indicates a 
continuation line.
.PP
Each file system that you want to allow clients to mount must be
explicitly defined.  Exporting only the root (/) will not allow clients
to mount 
.PN /usr .  
Exporting only 
.PN /usr 
will not allow clients to mount
.PN /usr/local , 
if it is a file system.  
.PP
Duplicate directory entries are not allowed.  The first entry is valid
and following duplicates are ignored.
.PP
Desired export options must be explicitly specified for each exported
resource: file system or directory.  If a file system and subdirectories 
within it are exported, the options associated with the file system are 
not ``inherited''.  You do not need to export an entire file system to allow 
clients to mount subdirectories within it.
.PP
The access list associated with each exported resource identifies which
clients can mount that resource with the specified options.  For
example, you can export an entire file system read-only, with a 
subdirectory within it exported read-write to a subset of clients.
If a client that is not identified in the export access list of a directory 
attempts to mount it, then access is checked against the closest exported
ancestor.  If mount access is allowed at a higher level in the directory
tree of the file system, the export options associated with the successful 
match will be in effect.
.PP
If you are concerned with nfs security, all ufs file systems exported
via nfs should be ufs mounted with the 
.PN nodev
option. All 
ufs file systems exported via nfs with the 
.PN \-r=0
option specified
in the 
.PN /etc/exports
file should be ufs mounted with
the 
.PN nosuid 
option.
.SH Examples
.EX 0
/usr alpha beta         # export /usr to hosts alpha and beta, client
                          superuser maps to uid \-2 and read\-write
                          access is permitted

/usr/staff/doe clients  # export directory to hosts in netgroup clients

/usr/man/man1 \-o        # export directory read\-only to everyone

/usr/local \-r=0 beta    # export file system to beta, superuser
                          on beta maps to local superuser (uid=0)
.EE
.SH Files
.PN /etc/exports
.SH See Also
hosts(5), mountd(8nfs), netgroup(5yp)
.br
\fIGuide to the BIND/Hesiod Service\fP
.br
\fIIntroduction to Networking and Distributed System Services\fP
