.\" SCCSID: @(#)inetd.conf.5	8.1	9/11/90
.TH inetd.conf 5 
.SH Name
inetd.conf \- Internet daemon configuration data base
.SH Description
.NXR "inetd.conf file" "format"
.NXA "protocols file" "inetd.conf file"
.NXA "services file" "inetd.conf file"
.NXAM "inetd server daemon" "inetd.conf file"
The
.PN inetd.conf
file contains information regarding
the services that
.MS inetd 8c
will handle by opening sockets and listening for requests.
For each service, a single line should be present
with the following information:
.IP 
Official service name (must be in 
.PN /etc/services)
.IP 
Socket type (stream or dgram)
.IP 
Protocol name (must be in 
.PN /etc/protocols)
.IP 
Delay (wait or nowait)
.IP 
Program (fully specified server program name)
.IP 
Arguments (up to five arguments for server program)
.PP
Items are separated by any number of blanks or
tab characters.  
A number sign (#) indicates the beginning of
a comment.  Characters up to the end of the line are
not interpreted by routines that search the file.
.PP
Fields may contain any printable
character other than a field delimiter, newline,
or comment character.
.PP
A server marked as ``wait'' must be able to handle all requests that
come to it during its lifetime.  The 
.MS inetd 8c
program will not invoke any new instances of the program until the
current one terminates.  If a server is marked as ``nowait'', 
a new invocation of the server will be started for
every incoming request.
.SH Files
.PN /etc/inetd.conf
.SH See Also
protocols(5), services(5), inetd(8c)
