.TH kitcap 5
.SH Name
kitcap \- kit descriptor database for gentape and genra utilities.
.SH Description
The 
.PN kitcap
file is a database for kit descriptors containing
product codes, directories, files, and subsets that make up
a product description to be used by 
.PN gentapes 
or 
.PN genra 
to create distribution media.  All fields are separated by 
colons (:) with a backslash (\\) at the end of a line indicating continuation.
Lines starting with a number sign (#) are considered comments
and are ignored.  Comment fields with a kitcode description
are delimited by an opening number sign (#) and a closing colon (:).
.PP
The following
.PN kitcap
entry examples are for TK50 and MT9 media types:
.EX
Product-codeTK | Product Description:directory1:directory2:directory3:\\
	SPACE:SPACE:SPACE:INSTCTRL:subset1:subset2:subset3:subset4:subset5

Product-codeMT | Product Description:directory1:directory2:directory3:\\
	SPACE:SPACE:SPACE:INSTCTRL:subset1:subset2:subset3:subset4:subset5:\\
	%%2:\\
	subset6:subset7:subset8:subset9:subset10
.EE
.PP
The following parts make up the 
.PN kitcap 
descriptor for magnetic tape media:
.TP
Product-code 
.br
This is an arbitrary name made up of letters and/or
numbers unique to the product that it describes.
Typical codes include a product identifier and a 
version identifier, as indicated in the previous examples.
.TP
Media-code (TK or MT)
.br
The media-code is a 2 letter reference that describes
the type of media the files will be written to.  The
media code must be either TK for TK50 or
MT for 9-track magnetic tape devices.  During run
time, the 
.PN gentapes 
utility probes the device to be
written to and determines if it is a TK50- or MT9-type
device.  It then appends either TK or MT to the kitcode
given on the command line and searches for the kitcode
(product-code/media-code) in the kitcap file.
.TP
Product Description
.br
This field is a description of the software product
that is being created by the 
.PN gentapes 
utility and replaces the NAME field in the 
.PN .ctrl 
file of all the
subsets that make up a product.  This is an optional
field for magnetic tape media.
.TP
Directories
.br
The magnetic tape media production utility has the 
ability of producing multi-product tapes.  That is,
it can take subsets from different products that are
based in different directories and merge them together
to form a third product, which is a combination of
the original products.  Directory entries provide the full
path locations of where the subsets that are to be put
on media will be  stored.  There must be at least one directory
entry for each kitcap descriptor.
.TP
SPACE
.br
The SPACE file is a place holder for tape records composed of 1k of
NULL characters. Three SPACE files are used as dummy files to ensure
compatibility with ULTRIX operating system kits.
.TP
INSTCTRL
.br
The INSTCTRL image contains \f(CWsetld\fR control information.
.TP
Subsets
.br
This field provides a list of subsets or files that are to be either
written to the magnetic tape media or verified from the
magnetic tape media.  Each subset listed must be stored
in one of the directories listed in that particular kitcap
descriptor.  If a file or subset is stored in a subdirectory
of one of the directories listed in the kitcap
descriptor, it is possible to include that sub-path with
the subset/filename entry instead of listing the entire
path/subpath as another directory listing.  For example,
a directory listed in the kitcap descriptor under
the rules given in the Directories section is listed as:
.EX
/KITS/MYPRODUCT/001
.EE
A particular subset or file that a user would
like to include on the media is stored in:
.EX
/KITS/MYPRODUCT/001/subdirectory/subset
.EE
Since the subdirectory/subset specification is part of the 
.PN /KITS/MYPRODUCT/001 
directory tree, it is not necessary to include the full path 
.PN /KITS/MYPRODUCT/001/
subdirectory in the directory listing.  
An alternative is to include the subdirectory path with the subset 
name in the subset list.
For example:
.EX
MY-PROD-001 | This is a good product:\\
	/KITS/MYPRODUCT/001:SPACE:SPACE:SPACE:\\
	INSTCTRL:subset1:subset2:subdirectory/subset3:subset4
.EE
.TP
Volume identifier (MT9 media only)
.br
The volume identifier is optional.
Multi-tape support is available for products that have
subsets or files that take up more room than is available
by a single 9-track magnetic tape.  If the subset list
results in an end-of-tape condition, the subset list can
be split into any number of multi-volume sets by placing
.PN %%n 
(where n is the volume number of the next tape)
anywhere appropriate in the subset list.
The subsets listed between the volume identifiers must 
fit on a single piece of media.
By default, the subset list located directly
after the directory list is always considered the first volume.
Therefore, a volume identifier for the first volume in
a multi-volume kit descriptor is not necessary.
.PP
The following example shows a
.PN kitcap
entry for disks:
.EX
Product-codeRA:partition:\\
	dd=/:Product_Description:\\
	directory1:directory2:directory3:\\
	instctrl:subset1:subset2:subset3:subset4:subset5:\\
	dd=SUB/DIR:Product_Description:\\
	instctrl:directory1:directory2:directory3:\\
	subset1:subset2:subset3:subset4:subset5
.EE
.PP
The following parts make up the kitcap descriptor for disk
media:
.TP
Product-code
.br
Same as for magnetic tape.
.TP
Media-code
.br
The media code for disks is RA and is appended to the
product-code provided by the user at run time, by the
.PN genra 
utility.
.TP
Disk Partition 
.br
This field is the partition where you want the software
written to on the disk.  
.TP
dd=
.br
This field tells the 
.PN genra 
utility what directory you
want the subsets written to on the disk media that is
being created.  The contraction 
.PN dd
can be thought of as the ``destination directory'' for the subsets.  
This field is required and allows a hierarchial structure 
for those who want to put multiple products on the same
disk, or want to separate parts of one product 
into different areas on the disk.  
.PP
Typically, a disk is mounted by the
.PN genra 
utility onto a temporary mount point under
.PN /usr/tmp
This location becomes the disks root directory.  
If a user wants to have only one directory for an
entire product, a valid entry would be dd=/. 
This entry tells the 
.PN genra 
utility to write all the following subsets under the mount point.  
.PP
In the disk kitcap descriptor example given previously, 
the first five subsets are
being written to the mount point, or root directory, for
the disk media being made.  Then a new directory on the
disk media is made, 
.PN /mnt_point/SUB/DIR ,
and the next five subsets are written into that directory on the disk
media. 
.PP
It is important to note that the top-level directory of the 
media disk is always considered the mount
point used by the 
.PN genra 
script and is referenced by dd=/.
Any subdirectories listed as destination directories 
are created starting from the mount point and
must be referenced in full.  For instance, in the previous example,
if the user wanted to put some other
subsets in a subdirectory of DIR, the entry would 
be dd=SUB/DIR/SUBSUBDIR.  Note that each new
destination directory requires a product description.
.TP
Product Description
.br
This field is similar to the one defined under the magnetic tape description. 
However, in the case of disk
media there are 2 important differences.  The product description
is a required field, and all words in
the description must be connected with underscores (_).
The 
.PN genra 
script removes the underscores at run time.
For example, suppose the desired description was as follows:
.EX
This is a good product
.EE
The Product Description entry when making disk media
would become:
.EX
This_is_a_good_product
.EE
.TP
Directories
.br
Same as for magnetic tape.
.TP
instctrl
.br
A directory containing the same information as INSTCTRL for magnetic tape.
.TP
Subsets
.br
Same as for magnetic tape.
.SH Examples
TK50 and MT9 (single-volume tape)kitcap description 
.EX
MYPRODUCT400 | MYPRODUCT software version 4:\\
	:# directory listing :\\
	/directory1:/directory2:/directory3:\\
	SPACE:SPACE:SPACE:INSTCTRL:\\
	:# subset listing :\\
	subset1:subset2:subset3:subset4:subset5
.EE
.PP
MT9 kitcap description (multi-volume tape)
.EX
MYPRODUCT400 | MYPRODUCT software version 4:\\
	/directory1:/directory2:/directory3:\\
	SPACE:SPACE:SPACE:INSTCTRL:\\
	subset1:subset2:subset3:subset4:subset5:\\
	:# Volume 2 :\\
	%%2:\\
	subset6:subset7:subset8:subset9:subset10
.EE
.PP
RA60 kitcap description (single product)
.EX
MYPRODUCT400:c:\\
	dd=/:MYPRODUCT_software_version_4:\\
	/directory1:/directory2:/directory3:\\
	instctrl:subset1:subset2:subset3:subset4:subset5
.EE
.PP
RA60 kitcap description (multiple product)
.EX
MYPRODUCT400:c:\\
	dd=MYPRODUCT/BASE:\\
	MYPRODUCT_software_version_4_base_subsets:\\
	/directory1:/directory2:/directory3:\\
	instctrl:subset1:subset2:subset3:subset4:subset5:\\
	dd=MYPRODUCT/NONBASE:\\
	MYPRODUCT_software_version_4_nonbase_subsets:\\
	/directory1:/directory2:/directory3:\\
	instctrl:subset1:subset2:subset3:subset4:subset5
.EE
.SH See Also
genra(8), gentapes(8)
