.TH krb_dbase 5krb
.SH Name
krb_dbase \- ASCII version of the Kerberos database 
.SH Description
.NXR "Kerberos files" "krb_dbase"
All of the Kerberos tools, including
the 
.PN kerberos
daemon, access a version of the Kerberos 
database that is stored in
an
.PN ndbm \-formatted
file.  See the
.PN ndbm(3)
reference page for more information.
Files in 
.PN ndbm
format are not user readable.
To examine the Kerberos database, it
is necessary to convert the 
.PN ndbm
database into an ASCII-formatted file with
.PN kdb_util(8krb) .
A file in 
.PN krb_dbase
format is an ASCII-formatted version of the Kerberos database.
.PP
Each line in a 
.PN krb_dbase \-formatted
file lists the
attributes associated with a single Kerberos principal.
The following list describes the fields as they appear
from left to right in a 
.PN krb_dbase
file.  A blank
entry in the database is indicated by an asterisk (*).
.sp 2 
\fBKerberos primary name\fP:
The primary name is the first part of the principal name
that the line describes.  It is usually
equivalent to the name of the application or user that is
associated with	the principal.
.PP
\fBKerberos instance name\fP:
The instance name is the second section of the principal name
that the line describes.  It is usually
equivalent to the name of the machine on which an application
runs.  If the primary name references a user, the instance name is blank.
.PP
\fBMaximum ticket lifetime\fP:
The third entry is the maximum lifetime of a ticket
produced for the principal  by the ticket-granting service.  
The number stored in
the 
.PN krb_dbase
file indicates the number of 5-minute intervals
for which the ticket is valid.  For example, if the maximum ticket
lifetime of a principal is 10, any ticket that the principal
acquires from the ticket-granting service will expire in a maximum of 
50 minutes.  The maximum
ticket lifetime corresponds to a value of 255 (21 hours
and 15 minutes).
.PP
\fBKerberos database key version\fP:
The master key of the Kerberos
database is used to encrypt sections of the Kerberos database.
This master key can be changed. 
The fourth entry is the version number associated with the master
key of the Kerberos database.  
.PP
\fBPrincipal key version\fP:
The key associated with the principal can also change.
The fifth field records the version number of
the key associated with the principal.
.PP
\fBAttributes\fP:
The attributes field is not currently used by the
ULTRIX implementation of Kerberos.  It should always be zero.
.PP
\fBKey of the principal\fP:
The key of the principal is stored in the seventh and eighth fields.
It is encrypted with the master
database key.
.PP
\fBExpiration time\fP:
The date
on which the 
principal's entry in the Kerberos database will expire
is stored in the ninth field.
The
first four digits of the date indicate the year in which the
entry will expire. The next two digits indicate the month, 
the seventh and eighth digits
indicate the day, and the last four digits indicate the hour and
minute at
which the entry will expire.  For example, an entry
of the form 198909171755 indicates that the principal's
entry will expire on September 17, 1989 at 5:55 in the
afternoon.
.PP
\fBModification time\fP:
The modification field stores the date on which the
principal's entry in the Kerberos database was last changed.
It is stored in the same format as the expiration time.
.PP
\fBModifier's name\fP:
The eleventh field stores the name of the utility
that last modified the principal's entry.
Only
.PN db_creation
and a blank
entry are possible in the modifier's name field.  A blank entry
indicates that the field was added by
.PN kdb_edit(8krb) .
A modifier name field that states that the entry was
produced by 
.PN db_creation
indicates that the entry was added
by 
.PN kdb_init(8krb)
when the database was created.
.PP
\fBModifier's instance\fP:
The twelfth field indicates the instance of
the utility that last modified the principal's entry.
This field is always blank.
.SH Examples
The following is an example of an entry form of a
.PN krb_dbase \-formatted
file for host,
.PN cactus .
.EX (WIDE
kprop cactus 255 2 1 0 8f68f19 a941c6d 200001010459 198909171755 * *
.EE
.SH Files
.PN /var/dss/kerberos/dbase/dbase 
.SH See Also
ndbm(3), kdb_init(8krb), kdb_edit(8krb), kdb_destroy(8krb), kdb_util(8krb)
