.\" SCCSID: @(#)L-devices.5	8.1	9/11/90
.TH L-devices 5
.SH Name
L-devices \- devices used to connect to remote systems
.SH Syntax
.B /usr/lib/uucp/L-devices
.SH Description
.NXR "L-devices file" "format"
.NXA "L.sys file" "L-devices file"
.NXAM "uucp utility" "L-devices file"
.NXR "remote system" "specifying devices for connecting"
The
.PN uucp
utility uses the L-devices file.  The file contains information
about call units and direct connections.  It is used to map specifiers
in the
.MS L.sys 5
file to specific devices.
.PP
The format of each entry, with each field separated by blanks or
tabs, is:
.IP "" 1i
\fItype line call-unit speed brand proto
.IP \fItype\fR .7i
A device type, such as ACU or DIR.  DIR indicates that this is a
direct-connect, hard-wired line.
.IP \fIline\fR .7i
The device for the modem line or hard-wired line as named in
.PN /dev , 
such as cul0 or ttyab.  The special device files are assumed
to be in the 
.PN /dev 
directory.
.IP \fIcall-unit\fR .7i
The automatic call unit associated with
.IR line ,
for example, cua0.
Hard-wired lines should place the device for the line in this field,
for example, ttyab.  The value for
.I call-unit
is usually the same as the value for
.IR line .
.IP \fIspeed\fR .7i
The line speed.
.IP \fIbrand\fR .7i
The brand name of the modem or ACU.  Acceptable brands are
DF02, DF03, or DF112 (for DIGITAL modems), Ventel, Hayes, and 
Vadic.  For direct connection, place the word direct in this
field.
.IP \fIproto\fR .7i
The preferred protocol type to use, for example, 
.PN g
or 
.PN f .
.SH Examples
Here are some typical L-devices entries:
.EX 0
ACU cua0 cua0 300 DF02
ACU cua1 cua1 1200 DF03
ACU cua2 cua2 1200 DF112
DIR ttyab ttyab 9600 direct
.SH See Also
.I "Guide to the uucp Utility"
