.\" SCCSID: @(#)L.cmds.5	8.1	9/11/90
.TH L.cmds 5
.SH Name
L.cmds \- allowable remote execution commands
.SH Syntax
.B /usr/lib/uucp/L.cmds
.SH Description
.NXR "L.cmds file"
.NXR "remote system" "executing commands"
.NXAM "uux program" "L.cmds file"
The
.PN uucp
utility uses the
.PN L.cmds
file to determine which commands can be executed by 
remote systems with the
.MS uux 1c
command.
The
.PN uucp
utility first looks in the 
.PN USERFILE 
file to find the execution level defined there for
the remote system.  Then,
.PN uucp
looks in the
.PN L.cmds
file.  The remote system can execute any command
whose execution level as defined
in 
.PN L.cmds
is less than or equal to the execution level for the system
as defined in
.PN USERFILE .
The format of the 
.PN L.cmds
file is:
.IP "" 1i
\fIcommand \fRX\fI#\fR
.IP \fIcommand\fR .7i
An ULTRIX system command or application program.
.IP X\fI#\fR .7i
The execution level associated with
.IR command .
The number \fI#\fR can range from 0 through 9.  If the
X field is omitted, then 9 is the default.  If X is
specified but \fI#\fR is omitted, then 0 is the default,
enabling any system to use this command.
.PP
You can also specify a line in the 
.PN L.cmds
file to define the paths used to search for
commands:
.IP "" 1i
PATH=\fIpath1\fR:\fIpath2\fR:...
.IP \fIpath1\fR .7i
The first directory examined for commands.
.IP \fIpath2\fR .7i
The second directory examined for commands.
.nf
.br
     .
     .
     .
.SH Examples
This example allows remote systems defined in the
local system's 
.PN USERFILE
with an execution level of 1 or higher
to execute the commands rmail and rnews.  Only remote systems
with an execution level of 9 would be able to execute 
.PN uux .
.EX 
rmail X1
rnews X1
uux X9
.EE
.SH See Also
USERFILE(5), uux(1c)
.br
.I "Guide to the uucp Utility"
