.TH mh_profile 5mh
.SH Name
mh_profile \- user customization for MH message system
.SH Description
.NXR "mh_profile file"
.NXR "MH system" "user customization file"
Each user of MH is expected to have a file named 
.PN \&.mh_profile
in his or her home directory.  
This file contains a set of static user parameters 
used by some or all of the MH family of programs.  
Each line of the file is in the format:
.EX
profile\-component: \fIvalue\fP
.EE
.PP
In addition, MH keeps information about changes in context
(for example, the current folder and message) in the
.PN context
file, which is normally located in the user's Mail directory.
MH also consults a number of environment variables.
Both the 
.PN context 
file entries and these environment variables are described 
in this reference page.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SS Profile File Entries
The possible profile components are described in the following table.
Only \f(CWPath\fR is mandatory.  
The others are optional;
some have default values if they are not present.
In the notation used below,
the default value is given in parentheses ( ) 
at the end of each entry.
.PP
When giving path names,
.PN <mh-dir>
is used to indicate the user's Mail directory.
This is the directory given by the \f(CWPath\fR
entry in the user's profile, 
and is set up initially by MH to be
.PN $HOME/Mail .
.\"
.TP 10
.PN "Path: \fIpathname\fR"
Locates MH transactions in the named directory. 
If the directory path name is not absolute 
(does not begin with a \f(CW/\fR ), it is assumed
to begin in the user's home directory.
When you first use MH, it creates a directory called 
.PN Mail
in your home directory, and adds the appropriate entry to the
.PN \&.mh_profile .
.br
(no default)
.\"
.TP
.PN "Context: context"
Declares the location of the MH context file. 
.br
(default: 
.PN <mh\-dir>/context )
.\"
.TP
.PN "Previous-Sequence: pseq"
Names the sequences which should be defined as the 
.I msgs
or 
.I msg
argument given to the program.  
If not present, or empty, no sequences are defined.  
Otherwise, for each name given, the sequence is first zeroed and 
then each message is added to the sequence. 
.br
(no default)
.\"
.TP
.PN "Sequence-Negation: not"
Defines the string which, when prefixed to a sequence name,
negates that sequence.
Hence, the argument \f(CWnotseen\fR means all those messages 
that are not a member of the sequence \f(CWseen\fR.
.br
(no default)
.\"
.TP
.PN "Unseen-Sequence:\ unseen"
Names the sequences which should be defined 
as those messages recently incorporated by 
.PN inc .
The 
.PN show
command removes messages from this sequence once it thinks they
have been seen.
If not present, or empty, no sequences are defined.
Otherwise, for each name given, the sequence is first zeroed 
and then each message is added to the sequence.
.br
(no default)
.\"
.TP
.PN "mh\-sequences: \&.mh_sequences"
The name of the file in each folder which defines public sequences.
To disable the use of public sequences,
leave the value portion of this entry blank.
.br
(default: 
.PN \&.mh_sequences )
.\"
.TP
.PN "Editor: /usr/ucb/vi"
Defines editor to be used by 
.MS comp 1mh , 
.MS dist 1mh , 
.MS forw 1mh , 
and 
.MS repl 1mh .
.br
(default: 
.PN prompter )
.\"
.\"
.\" ***COMMENTED OUT
.ig
.TP
.PN "Template-Editor: /usr/ucb/vi"
Defines editor invoked by the 
.B \-template
option of
.MS comp 1mh ,
.MS dist 1mh ,
.MS forw 1mh ,
and
.MS repl 1mh .
This editor is used to fill in the X.400 address
template.
.br
(default: 
.PN prompter )
..
.\" ***END OF COMMENTS
.\"
.\" 
.TP
.PN "Msg\-Protect: 600"
Defines octal protection bits for message files.
See 
.MS chmod 1 
for an explanation of the octal number.
.br
(default: 0600)
.\"
.TP
.PN "Folder\-Protect: 700"
Defines protection bits for folder directories. 
See 
.MS chmod 1
for an explanation of the octal number.
.br
(default: 0700)
.\"
.TP
.PN "command: \fIoptions\fR"
Sets options to be used 
whenever an MH command is invoked.
You should only set up options in your profile, 
not arguments (options are usually introduced by a dash \f(CW-\fR ).
You can override the options set up in the
.PN \&.mh_profile
by giving an option on the command line.
For example, you could override the \f(CWEditor\fR
profile component when replying to messages by 
typing the command:
.EX
% \f(CBrepl \-editor /bin/ed\fR
.EE
.br
(no default)
.\"
.TP
.PN "Aliasfile: \fIfilename\fR"
Defines the alias file to be used by MH commands 
which take the 
.B \-alias
option.
The named file must be in the correct format; see 
.MS mh-alias 5mh .
.br
(no default)
.\"
.TP
.PN "-next:\ nexteditor"
Names \f(CWnexteditor\fR to be the default editor 
after using \f(CWlasteditor\fR.
This takes effect at \f(CWWhat now?\fR level in
.PN comp , 
.PN dist , 
.PN forw , 
and 
.PN repl .
After editing the draft with \f(CWlasteditor\fR,
the default editor is set to be \f(CWnexteditor\fR.
If the user types \f(CWedit\fR without any arguments 
at the  \f(CWWhat now?\fR prompt,
then \f(CWnexteditor\fR is used.
.br
(no default)
.\"
.TP
.PN "mhe:"
If present, tells 
.PN inc
to compose an Emacs
audit file in addition to
its other tasks.
.br
(no default)
.\"
.TP
.PN "Alternate\-Mailboxes: mh@uci\-750a, bug-mh*"
Tells 
.PN repl
and 
.PN scan
which addresses are really yours.
In this way, 
.PN repl
knows which addresses should be included in the reply,
and 
.PN scan
knows if the message really originated from you.
Addresses must be separated by a comma,
and the host names listed should be the official 
host names for the mailboxes you indicate,
as local nicknames for hosts are not replaced 
with their official site names.
For each address, if a host is not given,
then that address on any host is considered to be you.
In addition, an asterisk (\f(CW*\fR) may appear 
at either or both ends of the mailbox and host
to indicate wild-card matching.
.br
(default: your user-id)
.\"
.TP
.PN "Draft\-Folder: \fI+folder"
Specifies the name of the draft folder.
This is used by 
.PN comp , 
.PN dist , 
.PN forw ,
and 
.PN repl 
to construct draft messages in, and to store unsent 
draft messages.
A draft folder allows you to have more than one unsent draft
at a time.
The draft folder is conventionally called 
.PN +drafts .
.br
(no default)
.\"
.TP
.PN "MailDrop: \&.mail"
Tells 
.PN inc
your maildrop, if different from the default.
This is superseded by the \f(CW$MAILDROP\fR
environment variable.
.br
(default: /usr/spool/mail/$USER)
.\"
.TP
.PN "Signature: \"Rand MH System\""
Tells 
.PN send
your mail signature.
This is superseded by the \fR$SIGNATURE\fR
environment variable.  
The signature must be enclosed in double quotes (\f(CW" "\fR).
.br
(no default)
.\"
.\"
.PP
The following profile elements are used whenever an 
MH program invokes some other program such as 
.MS more 1 .
The 
.PN \&.mh_profile
can be used to select alternative
programs if the user wishes.  
The default values are as follows:
.EX
fileproc:       /usr/bin/mh/refile
incproc:        /usr/bin/mh/inc
installproc:    /usr/lib/mh/install\-mh
lproc:          /usr/ucb/more
mailproc:       /usr/bin/mh/mhmail
mhlproc:        /usr/lib/mh/mhl
moreproc:       /usr/ucb/more
mshproc:        /usr/bin/mh/msh
packproc:       /usr/bin/mh/packf
postproc:       /usr/lib/mh/post
rmmproc:         none
rmfproc:        /usr/bin/mh/rmf
sendproc:       /usr/bin/mh/send
showproc:       /usr/ucb/more
whatnowproc:    /usr/bin/mh/whatnow
whomproc:       /usr/bin/mh/whom
.EE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SS Context File Entries
Changes in context are made to the
.PN context
file kept in the users Mail directory.
This includes, but is not limited to, the \f(CWCurrent-Folder\fR
entry, and all private sequence information.
Information kept in the 
.PN context 
file is updated by MH programs as they are used;
the
.PN \&.mh_profile
contains only static information, which MH programs
do not update.
.PP
The 
.PN \&.mh_profile
may override the path of the
.PN context
file by specifying a
.PN context
entry (this must be in lower-case).
If the entry is not absolute (does not start with
.PN / ),
then it is interpreted relative to the user's Mail directory.
.PP
Private sequence information is kept in the 
.PN context 
file.
Public sequence information is kept in a file called
.PN \&.mh_sequences
in each folder.
.PP
The 
.PN context 
file may contain the following components:
.\"
.TP
.PN "Current-Folder: \fIfolder\fR"
Keeps track of the current open folder. 
.br
(default:
.PN +inbox )
.\"
.TP
.PN "atr\-seq\-folder: 172\0178\-181\0212"
Keeps track of the private sequence called 
.PN seq
in the specified folder.
.br
(no default)
.\"
.TP
.PN "Folder-Stack: folders"
The contents of the folder-stack for the 
.PN folder
command.
.br
(no default)
.\"
.TP
.PN "digest\-issue\-list: 1"
Tells 
.PN forw
the last issue of the last volume sent for the digest
.PN list .
.br
(no default)
.\"
.TP
.PN "digest\-volume\-list: 1"
Tells 
.PN forw
the last volume sent for the digest 
.PN list .
.br
(no default)
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SS Environment Variables
In addition to the 
.PN \&.mh_profile
and
.PN context
files, MH programs consult a number of environment variables.
.PP
If you define the environment variable \f(CW$MH\fR,
you can specify a profile other than 
.PN \&.mh_profile
to be read by the MH programs that you invoke.
If the value of \f(CW$MH\fR
is not absolute,
(that is, does not begin with \f(CW/\fR ),
it will be presumed to start from the current working directory.
This is one of the very few exceptions in MH where non-absolute
pathnames are not considered relative to the user's Mail directory.
.PP
Similarly,
if you define the environment variable \f(CW$MHCONTEXT\fR,
you can specify a context other than the normal context file
(as specified in the 
.PN \&.mh_profile ).
Unless the value of \f(CW$MHCONTEXT\fR
is absolute, it will be presumed to start from your Mail directory.
.PP
MH programs also consult the following environment variables:
.\"
.TP 10
.PN $MAILDROP
Tells
.PN inc
the default maildrop.
This supersedes the \f(CWMaildrop\fR profile entry.
.\"
.TP
.PN $SIGNATURE
Tells 
.PN send
and 
.PN post
your mail signature.
This supersedes the \f(CWSignature\fR profile entry.
.\"
.TP
.PN $HOME
Tells all MH programs your home directory.
.\"
.TP
.PN $TERM
Tells MH your terminal type.
The \f(CW$TERMCAP\fR
environment variable is also consulted.
In particular, these two environment variables tell
.PN scan
and 
.PN mhl
how to clear your terminal,
and how many columns wide your terminal is.
They also tell 
.PN mhl
how many lines long your terminal screen is.
.\"
.\"
.PP
Some environment variables are set by MH programs for
.PN whatnowproc .
These are:
.\"
.TP 10
.PN $editalt
The alternative message.
Set by 
.PN dist
and 
.PN repl
during edit sessions
so you can view the message being distributed or replied to.
The message is also available through a link called \f(CW@\fR
in the current directory, as long as your current working 
directory has write permission.
If your current working directory and
the folder containing the message are on the same file system,
this link is a hard link; otherwise, it is a symbolic link.
.\"
.TP
.PN $mhdraft
The path to the working draft.
Set by 
.PN comp , 
.PN dist , 
.PN forw , 
and 
.PN repl
to tell the 
.PN whatnowproc
which file to ask \f(CWWhat now?\fR questions
about.  
In addition,
.PN dist , 
.PN forw , 
and 
.PN repl
set \f(CW$mhfolder\fR
if appropriate.  
.\"
.TP
.PN $mhaltmsg
Set by 
.PN dist
and 
.PN repl
to tell the
.PN whatnowproc
about an alternative message associated with the draft
(the message being distributed or replied to).
.\"
.TP
.PN $mhdist
Set by 
.PN dist
to tell the 
.PN whatnowproc
that message redistribution is occurring.  
.\"
.TP
.PN $mheditor
Set to tell the 
.PN whatnowproc
your choice of editor (unless overridden by 
\fB\-noedit\fR).
.\"
.TP
.PN $mhuse
May be set by 
.PN comp .
.\"
.TP
.PN $mhmessages
.\"
.TP
.PN $mhannotate
.\"
.TP
.PN $mhinplace
Set by 
.PN dist , 
.PN forw , 
and 
.PN repl
if annotations are to occur.
The reason for this is that the MH user can select 
any program as the 
.PN whatnowproc , 
including one of the standard shells.
As a result, it is not possible to pass information 
via an argument list.
.\"
.TP
.PN $mhfolder
The folder containing the alternate message.
Set by 
.PN dist
and 
.PN repl
during edit sessions
so you can view other messages in the current folder,
besides the one being distributed or replied to.
The \f(CW$mhfolder\fR
environment variable is also set by 
.PN show , 
.PN prev , 
and 
.PN next
for use by 
.PN mhl .
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Restrictions
The shell quoting conventions are not available in the 
.PN \&.mh_profile .
Each token is separated by white space.
.PP
It is recommended that you only set up 
options to MH commands (and their values) in the 
.PN \&.mh_profile .
Arguments such as file names, folders, and message sequences
should not be included in profile entries.
.PP
When conflicting options are given to MH commands, 
the last option takes effect; earlier options are discarded.
This means that you can override an option you have set up in your
.PN \&.mh_profile
by giving a conflicting option at the command line.
Other arguments, such as file names, folders, or message sequences, 
are always remembered, and are not superseded by later 
arguments of the same kind.
Hence it is unwise to give arguments of this kind in your
.PN \&.mh_profile .
(Files and folders can be included in the 
.PN \&.mh_profile
as values to options, for example,
\fB\-draftfolder +drafts\fR.
They should not be included when they stand as independent 
arguments to the command.)
.PP
If you find that an MH program is being invoked again and again 
with the same arguments (and these are not options),
there are several possible solutions.
.PP
The first is to create a symbolic link in your 
.PN $HOME/bin
directory to the MH program of your choice.
By giving this link a different name,
you can create a new entry in your profile
and use an alternate set of defaults for the MH command.
.PP
Similarly, you could create a small shell script which calls the MH
program of your choice with an alternate set of invocation
line switches. 
Using links and an alternate profile entry is preferable
to this solution.
.PP
Finally, if you are a 
.PN csh
user, you could create an alias for the command of the form:
.EX
alias cmd /usr/bin/mh/cmd arg1 arg2 ...
.EE
In this way, you can avoid typing lengthy commands to the shell,
and still give MH commands safely.  
Remember that some MH commands invoke others, 
and that in all cases, the profile is read.
This means that aliases are disregarded 
beyond an initial command invocation.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Files
.TP 10
.PN $HOME/.mh_profile
The user profile.
.\"
.TP 
.PN <mh\-dir>/context
The user's context file.
.\"
.TP
.PN \fIfolder\f(CW/.mh_sequences
Public sequences for a particular folder.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH See Also
chmod(1), mh(1mh), environ(5)
