.TH netrc 5
.SH Name
netrc \- file used by ftp auto-login procedure (.netrc)
.SH Description
.NXR "netrc=>\\&.netrc file" "format"
The
.PN \&.netrc 
file contains frequently needed options for
.PN ftp
transfers.
The file resides in the owner's home directory on the machine
from which the owner initiates the file transfer.
If the file includes passwords, set permissions on the file with
.MS chmod 1
so that only the owner has read
permission.
.PP
The 
.PN \&.netrc
file uses the following format:
.IP \(bu 5
Each line of the 
.PN \&.netrc 
file defines options for a specific machine.  
.IP \(bu 5
A line in the 
.PN \&.netrc 
file can be either a machine line or a
default line.  
.IP \(bu 5
The default line must be the first line in the file if it
is present.  
.IP \(bu 5
Fields in a default line appear in this order:
default, default machine name.
.IP \(bu 5
Fields in a machine line appear in this order: machine, machine
name, options.
.IP \(bu 5
Fields on each line are separated by spaces or tabs.
.PP
The following are valid options for a machine line:
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB lfHB lfHB
lfR  lfR  lfR lfR .
_
.sp 4p
Option@Parameter@Default@Description
.sp 4p
_
.sp 6p
machine@machine name@none@Identifies a remote 
@@@machine name
login@name@local name@Identifies user on the 
@@@remote machine
password@password@none@Password for remote 
@@@login name
account@password@none@Additional account password
macdef@macro name@none@Defines a macro like the 
@@@\f(CWftp macdef \fRcommand
.sp 6p
_
.TE
.ne 13
.SH Example
This is an example of a 
.PN \&.netrc 
file:
.EX
machine cactus login smith
machine nic.ddn.mil login anonymous password anonymous
machine palm.stateu.edu login smith password ualonerwelcome
macdef byenow
quit

macdef ls
dir

.EE
The first line allows 
.PN ftp
to log Smith into the machine
.PN cactus
after prompting for and receiving Smith's password, 
as shown in this example:
.br
.ne 8
.EX
$ ftp cactus
Connected to cactus.tech.edu
FTP server ready.
Password required for SMITH.
User logged in
ftp>
.EE
.PP
The second line of the file allows the user to perform an
anonymous 
.PN ftp
transfer after typing this command:
.EX
$ ftp nic.ddn.mil
.EE
See 
.MS ftp 1c
for a description of anonymous FTP transfers.
.PP
The third line allows Smith to log into the machine
.PN palm.stateu.edu .
Smith will not be prompted for a password because this
machine line includes password information.  Because 
the 
.PN \&.netrc
file includes password information, the file
must not have read permission set for world and group.
.PP
The 
.PN macdef
lines are macro definitions, which operate much like shell aliases.  
A blank line
must follow each macro definition 
to signal the end of the macro. 
The first macro definition defines 
.PN byenow
as an alias for the
.PN ftp
.PN quit
command.
.SH See Also
ftp(1c)
