.\" SCCSID: @(#)networks.5	8.1	9/11/90
.TH networks 5 
.SH Name
networks \- network name file
.SH Description
.NXR "networks file" "format"
.NXR "Internet" "specifying networks"
The
.PN networks
file is an ASCII file that contains information regarding
the known networks in the DARPA Internet.
For each network, a single line
should be present with the following information:
.HP 10
Official network name
.br
.ns
.HP 10
Network number
.br
.ns
.HP 10
Aliases
.PP
Each 
.PN network 
name is separated from the next by a newline.
Items are separated by any number of blanks or tab characters or both.
A number sign (#) indicates the beginning of a comment; characters up to the end of
the line are not interpreted by routines that search the file.
This file is normally created from the official network data base
maintained at the Network Information Control Center (NIC), though local
changes may be required to bring
it up to date regarding unofficial aliases
or unknown networks.
.PP
The network number may be specified in the conventional
dot (.) notation using the 
.PN inet_network 
routine
from the Internet address manipulation library, 
.PN inet(3n) .
Network names may contain any printable character other than a field
delimiter, newline, or comment character.
.PP
The 
.PN networks
database may be distributed in a network by a naming service, 
such as Yellow Pages or BIND/Hesiod.  See the
.I Guide to the Yellow Pages Service
or the 
.I Guide to the BIND/Hesiod Service
for setup information.
.SH Files
.PN /etc/networks
.SH See Also
getnetent(3n)
.br
.I Guide to the BIND/Hesiod Service
.br
.I Guide to the Yellow Pages Service
                                        
