.\" SCCSID: @(#)plot.5	3.1	11/24/87
.TH plot 5 
.SH Name
plot \- graphics interface
.SH Description
.NXR "plot keyword"
.NXR "graphics file" "format"
.NXAM "plot command" "graphics file"
Files in this format are produced by the routines
described in 
.MS plot 3x 
and are interpreted for various devices
by commands described in 
.MS plot 1g .
.PP
A graphics file is a stream of plotting instructions.
Each instruction consists of an ASCII letter,
usually followed by bytes of binary information, executed in order.
A point is designated by 4 bytes representing the x and y
values and each value is a signed integer.  The last designated point in an
.PN l ,
.PN m ,
.PN n ,
or
.PN p
instruction becomes the current point for the next instruction.
.PP
In the following descriptions, the name of the corresponding
routine in 
.MS plot 3x 
is enclosed in parenthesis:
.RS 3
.IP "a (arc)" 12
The first 4 bytes are the center, the next 4 provide the
starting point,
and the last 4 bytes designate the end point of a circular arc.
The least significant coordinate of the end point is
used only to determine the quadrant.
The arc is drawn counter-clockwise.
.IP "c (circle)"
The first 4 bytes provide the center of the circle and 
the next 2 bytes designate the radius.
.IP "e (erase)"
Start another frame of output.
.IP "f (linemod)"
Take the following string, up to a new line,
as the style for drawing further lines.
The styles are dotted, solid, longdashed, shortdashed, and dotdashed.
This is only effective in the following plots:
.I 4014,
.I ver,
.I lvp16,
and
.I hp7475a.
.IP "l (line)"
Draw a line from the point designated by the next
4 bytes to the point provided by the following 4 bytes.
.IP "m (move)" 
The next 4 bytes provide a new current point.
.IP "n (cont)"
Draw a line from the current point to the point designated by the next 
4 bytes. For further information, see 
.MS plot 1g .
.IP "p (point)"
Plot the point provided by the next 4 bytes.
.IP "s (space)"
The next 4 bytes give the lower left corner of the plotting area.
The following 4 bytes give the upper right corner.
The plot is magnified or reduced to fit the device as closely as possible.
.IP
Space settings that fill the plotting area
with unity scaling are listed below for devices supported by the filters of
.MS plot 1g .
In each of the following cases, the plotting area is assumed 
square; points outside the square can be displayed on devices
that have areas which are not square:
.RE
.RS 18
.IP 4014 10
space(0, 0, 3120, 3120);
.PD 0
.IP ver
space(0, 0, 2048, 2048);
.IP "300, 300s"
space(0, 0, 4096, 4096);
.IP 450
space(0, 0, 4096, 4096);
.IP aed
space(0, 0, 511, 482)
.IP bitgraph
space(0, 0, 768, 1024)
.IP dumb
space(0, 0, 132, 90)
.IP gigi
space(0, 0, 767, 479)
.IP grn
space(0, 0, 512, 512)
.IP hp7221
space(0, 0, 1800, 1800)
.IP lvp16
space(0, 0, 10365, 7962)  (Paper Size: MET A)
.IP
space(0, 0, 16640, 10365) (Paper Size: MET B)
.IP
space(0, 0, 11040, 7721)  (Paper Size: US A4)
.IP
space(0, 0, 16150, 11040) (Paper Size: US A3)
.IP
space(0, 0, 7721, 7721)   (Default)
.IP hp7475a
Same as for lvp16.
.PD
.RE
.RS 3
.IP "t (label)" 12
Place the first character of the following ASCII string on the current point.
This string is terminated by a newline character.
.RE
.SH See Also
graph(1g), plot(1g), plot(3x)
