.\" SCCSID: @(#)remote.5	8.1	9/11/90
.\" Last modified 11/8/85 by CCB.  Note the UNIX's here
.\" must stay -- they are in the code.
.TH remote 5 
.SH Name
remote \- remote host description file
.SH Description
.NXR "remote file" "format"
.NXR "remote host" "format file"
.NXAM "tip command" "remote file"
The systems known by 
.MS tip 1c
and their attributes are stored in an ASCII file that
is structured somewhat like the 
.MS termcap 5
file.  Each line in the file provides a description for a single
.IR system .
Fields are separated by colons (:).
Lines ending in a backslash (\\) followed 
immediately by a newline character are continued on the next line.
.PP
The first entry is the names of the host system.  If there is more
than one name for a system, the names are separated by vertical bars.
After the name of the system comes the fields of the description.  A
field name followed by an equal sign (=) indicates
a string value follows.  A field
name followed by a number sign (#) indicates a following numeric value.
.PP
Entries named ``tip*'' and ``cu*''
are used as default entries by
.PN tip 
and the
.PN cu
interface to
.PN tip ,
as follows.  When
.PN tip
is invoked with only a phone number, it looks for an entry
of the form ``tip300'', where 300 is the baud rate with
which the connection is to be made.  When the
.PN cu
interface is used, entries of the form ``cu300'' are used.
.SH Capabilities
Capabilities are either strings (str), numbers (num), or Boolean
flags (bool).  A string capability is specified by
.IR capability = value ;
for example, 
.PN dv=/dev/harris .  
A numeric capability is specified by
.IR capability # value ;
for example,  
.PN xa#99 .  
A Boolean capability is specified by simply listing
the capability.
.TP 0.5i
.B at
(str)
Autocall unit type. This string is what is searched for in 
.PN /etc/acucap
to decide if the generic dialer is to be used. 
For further information, see 
.MS acucap 5 .
.TP 0.5i
.B br
(num)
The baud rate used in establishing
a connection to the remote host.
This is a decimal number.
The default baud rate is 300 baud.
.TP 0.5i
.B cm
(str)
An initial connection message to be sent
to the remote host.  For example, if a
host is reached through port selector, this
might be set to the appropriate sequence
required to switch to the host.
.TP 0.5i
.B cu
(str)
Call unit if making a phone call.
Default is the same as the 
.PN dv
field.
.TP 0.5i
.B di
(str)
Disconnect message sent to the host when a
disconnect is requested by the user.
.TP 0.5i
.B du
(bool)
This host is on a dial-up line.
.TP 0.5i
.B dv
(str)
UNIX devices to open to establish a connection.
If this file refers to a terminal line, 
.MS tip 1c
attempts to perform an exclusive open on the device to ensure only
one user at a time has access to the port.
.TP 0.5i
.B el
(str)
Characters marking an end-of-line.
The default is NULL.  Tilde (~) escapes are 
recognized by
.PN tip
only after one of the characters in 
.PN el ,
or after a carriage-return.
.TP 0.5i
.B fs
(str)
Frame size for transfers.
The default frame size is equal to BUFSIZ.
.TP 0.5i
.B hd
(bool)
The host uses half-duplex communication; local
echo should be performed.
.TP 0.5i
.B ie
(str)
Input end-of-file marks.
The default is NULL.
.TP 0.5i
.B md
(bool)  
A hardwired device being used accepts modem control
signals.  Used when 
.PN du
is not present but modem
signals are to be used.
.TP 0.5i
.B oe
(str)
Output end-of-file string.
The default is NULL.  When
.I tip
is transferring a file, this
string is sent at end-of-file.
.TP 0.5i
.B pa
(str)
The type of parity to use when sending data
to the host. The type can be one of even,
odd, none, zero (always set bit 8 to zero), or
1 (always set bit 8 to 1).  The default
is even parity.
.TP 0.5i
.B pn
(str)
Telephone numbers for this host.
If the telephone number field contains
an @ sign,
.PN tip
searches the file 
.PN /etc/phones
file for a list of telephone numbers.  For further information, see
.MS phones 5 .
.TP 0.5i
.B tc
(str)
Indicates that the list of capabilities is continued
in the named description.  This is used
primarily to share common capability information.
.PP
Here is a short example showing the use of the capability continuation
feature:
.EX 0
UNIX-1200:\e
	:dv=/dev/ttyd0:el=^D^U^C^S^Q^O:\
.br
	:du:at=df112:ie=#$%:oe=^D:br#1200:
ourvax|ox:\e
	:pn=7654321:tc=UNIX-1200
.EE
.SH Files
.PN /etc/remote
.SH See Also
tip(1c), acucap(5), phones(5)
