./" new page for v4.0
./" DRI : Sue Y.
./" Writer : Nolan Ring
.TH rhosts 5
.SH Name
rhosts \- list of hosts that are logically equivalent 
to the local host
.SH Syntax
.B /$HOME/\&.rhosts
.SH Description
.NXR "rhosts file=>\\&.rhosts file" 
The
.PN "\&.rhosts"
file allows a user who has an account on the local host to log
in from a remote host without supplying a password.  It also allows
remote copies to the local host.
.PP
If the 
.PN "\&.rhosts"
file exists, it is located in a user's home directory.
It is not a mandatory file, however.
.PP
The format of a
.PN "\&.rhosts"
file entry is:
.EX
\fIhostname\fR [\fIusername\fR]
.EE
The \fIhostname\fP is the name of the remote host from which the user
wants to log into the local host.  The \fIusername\fP is the user's login name
on the remote host.  If you do not specify
a user name, the user must have the same login name on both the
remote and local hosts.
.PP
The host names listed in the
.PN "\&.rhosts"
file may optionally contain the local BIND domain name.  For more 
information on BIND, see the 
.I Guide to the BIND/Hesiod Service.
.PP
If a user
.PN ginger 
is logged in to
.PN host1 ,
and wants to log in to
a host called
.PN machine1
without supplying a password, she must:
.IP \(bu 5
Have an account on 
.PN machine1
.IP \(bu 5
Create a 
.PN "\&.rhosts"
file in her home directory on 
.PN machine1
.IP \(bu 5
Specify \f(CBhost1 ginger\fP as an entry in the
.PN "\&.rhosts"
file.
.sp 6p
If 
.PN ginger
has the same login on both 
.PN host1
and 
.PN machine1 ,
she can simply specify \f(CBhost1\fR in her 
.PN "\&.rhosts" 
entry.
.NT
.NXR(n) "rhosts file=>\\&.rhosts file" "remote system superuser and"
You can allow the superuser of a remote system to log in to your
system without password protection or perform a remote copy by having a
.PN "\&.rhosts"
file in the root ( \fB/\fR ) directory, but it is not recommended.
.sp 6p
In addition to having a
.PN "\&.rhosts"
file, the superuser needs a
.PN secure
terminal entry in the
.PN /etc/ttys
file for each pseudoterminal configured in the system.
The secure entry looks similar to the following:
.EX
ttyp3      none    network         secure
.EE
See the
.MS ttys 5
reference page for more information.
.NE
.NXA "rhosts file=>\\&.rhosts file" "hosts.equiv file"
.SH Examples
The following is a sample 
.PN "\&.rhosts"
file for the user 
.PN ginger .
It is located in her home directory on
.PN host1 .
She also has accounts on the hosts called
.PN machine1 ,
.PN system1 ,
and
.PN host3 .
Her login name on 
.PN machine1
and 
.PN host3 
is the same as on 
.PN host1,
but her login on 
.PN system1 
is 
.PN gordon . 
.PP
To enable 
.PN ginger 
to log in to 
.PN host1
from
.PN machine1 ,
.PN system1 ,
and
.PN host3
without supplying a password, her 
.PN "\&.rhosts"
on 
.PN host1
should contain the following entries:
.EX
machine1
system1  gordon
host3
.EE
.SH See Also
hosts.equiv(5), ttys(5)
.br
.I "Introduction to Networking and Distributed System Services"
