.TH stl_ctrl 5
.SH Name
stl_ctrl \- software subset control files
.SH Description
.NX R "stl_ctrl file"
.NX R "software subset control file"
.NX R "software kits" "subset control files for"
Each software subset that is distributed on media used
with the
.PN setld
command has an associated 
.I control file.
This control file is created by the
.PN kits
utility. It contains the attribute
information for the subset. Once the subset
has been installed on a system,
the control file is placed in the
.PN usr/etc/subsets
directory. The control file for each subset has a name
formed by appending the extension
.PN .ctrl
to the end of the subset name.
.PP
The attribute definitions in the file are stored as attribute
name and value pairs separated by an equal sign (=). The attributes
are:
.TP
NAME
.br
The name of the product of which this subset is a member. This attribute
has the same value as the
.I NAME
attribute defined for the product in the product attributes section
of the
key
file.
.TP
DESC
.br
The text description of the subset as given in the subset descriptor
for this subset in the
key
file.
.TP
NVOLS
.br
Obsolete.
.TP
MTLOC
.br
A pair of integers separated by a colon (:).
These integers are used by the
.PN setld
utility to find the subset on tape media. The first number is the
volume in the product tape set; the second is the location
within the volume. The values established for this attribute
by the
.PN kits
utility are place holders. The values are later updated as the
subset is being written to tape by the
.PN gentapes
command.
.TP
DEPS
.br
The dependency list for this subset. The information for this
list is taken from the subset descriptor in the
key
file.
.TP
FLAGS
.br
The flags value from the key file.
.SH Examples
Here are the contents of
.PN UDTBASE400.ctrl ,
the control file for the
.PN UDTBASE400
subset:
.EX
    NAME='ULTRIX/UWS T4.0 (RISC)'
    DESC='Base System'
    NVOLS=1:112
    MTLOC=1:1
    DEPS="."
    FLAGS=1
.EE
.SH See Also
genra(1), gentapes(1), kits(1), stl_key(5), stl_tape(5), setld(8)
.br
.I Guide to Preparing Software for
.I Distribution on ULTRIX Systems
