.TH stl_mi 5
.SH Name
stl_mi \- software distribution master inventory file format
.SH Description
.NX R "kits" "master inventory file format"
.NX R "setld" "master inventory file format"
The master inventory (mi) files are used by the subset kitting program
.PN kits
when manufacturing subsets for installation with the
.PN setld
utility.
.PP
A master inventory file
contains one record for each file in a product containing
vendor-specified
attribute information about each file in the kit.
.PP
The master inventory contains ASCII data, one record per line.
Each record is composed of
three fields,
which must be separated by TAB characters.
.PP
Here is a description of each of the fields:
.TP 10
FLAGS
This is an integer flags value. The two lowest bits of
this flag are defined. All other bits are reserved for
use by Digital.
.IP "" 10
Bit 0 of this flag is the precedence
bit. Setting the precedence bit for a file indicates to
.PN setld
that a new copy of this file
is not as important to the target
system as a copy that is already there. This is used by
.PN setld
when determining which files to restore to the system after
updating a subset. Files containing configuration information
that can be modified after being installed are often marked
with this flag.
.IP
Bit 1 of this flag is defined as the volatility
bit. It is used to indicate that the file will change after
being installed to the target system and that the changes do
not indicate that the contents of the file have been corrupted.
When an application requires a log file, it is often
installed as a zero length file on the target system. Such log
files are normally marked in the master inventory with bit 1.
.TP 10
PATHNAME
This is the name of the file for which the record exists. The
pathname in this field must begin with a leading period (.).
All records in the file must be sorted in ascending order
on this field. There cannot be two records in a master
inventory that represent the same file. The
.PN newinv
program enforces these requirements.
.TP
SUBSET
The name of the subset to which the file belongs. A file
can be distributed as part of one subset only. Files that share
a gnode (links) must be in the same subset. Files that
are in the product hierarchy but are not distributed as part of
any subset should have a dash (-) in this field.
.SH Examples
This example shows a section of the master inventory
used to manufacture a release of the ULTRIX software:
.EX
0	./etc/newfs	UDTBASE040
0	./etc/zoneinfo/Poland	-
0	./usr/bin/passwd	UDTBASE040
0	./usr/diskless/dev/rrz2c	UDTDL040
0	./usr/etc/lockpw	UDTBASE040
0	./usr/include/search.h	UDTBASE040
0	./usr/lib/cmplrs/cc2.0/ppu	UDTBASE040
0	./usr/lib/libplotdumb.a	UDTPGMR040
0	./usr/lib/terminfo/2/2621-nl	UDTBASE040
0	./usr/lib/terminfo/a/altoh19	UDTBASE040
0	./usr/lib/terminfo/h/h19b	UDTBASE040
0	./usr/lib/terminfo/t/tek4024	UDTBASE040
0	./usr/man/man1/capsar.1	UDTMAN040
0	./usr/man/man1/ptx.1	UDTMAN040
0	./usr/man/man2/listen.2	UDTMAN040
0	./usr/man/man3/endhostent.3n	UDTMAN040
0	./usr/man/man3/ldaopen.3x	UDTMAN040
0	./usr/man/man3/ruserok.3x	UDTMAN040
0	./usr/man/man3/tparm.3cur	UDTMAN040
0	./usr/man/man5/tzfile.5	UDTMAN040
0	./usr/man/man8/secsetup.8	-
0	./usr/sys/MIPS/BINARY/mc146818clock.o	UDTBIN040
0	./usr/sys/data/dhu_data.c	UDTBIN040
0	./usr/sys/h/devio.h	UDTBASE040
0	./usr/sys/io/uba/qduser.h	UDTBIN040
0	./usr/sys/net/rpc/clnt.h	UDTBIN040
0	./usr/var/dss/ncs/llbd	UDTRPCRT040
.EE
.SH See Also
invcutter(1), kits(1), iff(8), setld(8).
.br
\fIGuide to Preparing Software for Distribution on ULTRIX Systems\fP
