.TH stl_key 5
.SH Name
stl_key \- setld kit manufacturing key file
.SH Description
.NX R "kits" "manufacturing key file format"
.NX R "setld" "kits manufacturing key file format"
The manufacturing key files are used by the software kitting program
.PN kits
in producing software distribution packages in
.PN setld
format.
.PP
A key file has a global data section and a subset
descriptor section. The sections are separated by a line that
is empty except for the %%
character sequence.
.PP
The global section contains the product level attributes of the
product. Comments are permitted
in this section. They begin with the number sign (#)
character and end at the next newline character.
Attributes are specified by giving the attribute key,
an equal sign (=), and a value for the attribute.
There must be no white space surrounding
the equals sign (=). There are five attributes that 
must be present with non-null values. These are
.I NAME,
.I CODE,
.I VERS,
.I MI,
and
.I ROOT.
An explanation of each of the attributes follows:
.RS 3
.TP 10
NAME
The name of the product. The value for
.I NAME
is a string of up to 40
characters.
.TP
CODE
The 3-character product code for the product, for example, ULT.
.TP
VERS
The 3-digit version code for the product, for example, 040.
.TP
MI
The pathname of the master inventory file for the product.
.TP
ROOT
A flag with values of 0 or 1. It is used to determine if a ROOT image
checksum should be computed for the product image file. There is no
ROOT image in any product other than ULTRIX. Set it to 0.
.TP
RXMAKE
A flag with values of 0 or 1. Setting it to 0 suppresses the manufacture
of subset images for distribution on RX50 diskettes. Omitting this
attribute from the key file will cause the
.PN kits
program to assume a default value of 1. Digital 
recommends setting it to 0.
.TP
COMPRESS
A flag with values of 0 or 1. Setting it to 1 causes the subset 
images to be compressed using the
.PN compress
utility, thereby saving space on the distribution media. Setting it to 0
suppresses compression. Omitting this attribute from the key file
will cause the 
.PN kits
program to assign a default value of 0.
.RE
.PP
The subset descriptor section contains one subset descriptor for
each subset in the product. There is one subset descriptor per line
in this section and comments are not permitted.
.PP
A subset descriptor contains subset-specific
attributes in four fields separated by TAB (CTRL/I)
characters. A description of each field follows:
.RS 3
.TP 10
SUBSET
This field contains the name of the subset being described by the
descriptor. The subset name is composed of the product code, name and
version code.
.TP
DEPENDENCIES
A list of subsets on which the described subset depends. If there
are no such subsets, the period character (.) is used. 
Multiple subset dependencies are
separated by a vertical bar character (|).
.TP
FLAGS
A subset flags value. This is an integer. Bit 0 is used to mark
the subset as irremovable. If bit 0 is set,
.PN setld
can never delete
the subset. Bit 1 is used to mark the 
subset as optional, otherwise it is mandatory
and must be installed from the media when encountered by
.PN setld .
.TP
DESCRIPTION
This is a description of the subset in 40 or fewer characters.
It is used in the menu that
.PN setld
presents to a user installing the software. If spaces are desired in
this field, the field must be enclosed in single quotes.
.RE
.PP
The subset descriptors must be listed in the order in
which the subsets are installed by
.PN setld .
.SH Restrictions
The required attributes and default values are not optimal.
.PP
Comments in the subset descriptor section will cause serious
problems when encountered by the
.PN kits
program.
.PP
TAB formatting in the subset descriptors is tightly enforced by
the
.PN kits
program.
.SH Examples
This is an example key file:
.EX
    #	ULW400.k -
    #		ULTRIX WS V4.0 Server 2/2 (VAX) Mfg Key File
    #
    #	"@(#)ULW400.k	2.2 (ULTRIX) 4/12/89"
    #
    #	000	02-mar-1989	ccb
    #	Copy from V2.0 (VAX) Sources
    #	Revision update for V4.0

    #% PRODUCT-LEVEL ATTRIBUTES
    NAME='ULTRIX Worksystem Software V4.0'
    CODE=UWS
    VERS=400
    MI=ULT400.mi
    ROOT=0
    RXMAKE=0
    COMPRESS=1

    #% SUBSET-LEVEL ATTRIBUTES
    %%
    UWSX11400	ULTINET400	0	'X11/DECwindows User Environment'
    UWSFONT400	UWSX11400	0	'X11/DECwindows 75dpi Fonts'
    UWSFONT15400	.	2	'X11/DECwindows 100dpi Fonts'
    UWSDECW400	.	2	'Optional DECwindows Applications'
    UWSXDEV400	ULTPGMR400	2	'Worksystems Development Software'
    UWSMAN400	ULTDCMT400	2	'UWS Manual Pages'
.EE
.SH See Also
kits(1), stl_comp(5), stl_ctrl(5), stl_image(5), setld(8)
.br
.I "Guide to Preparing Software for Distribution on ULTRIX Systems"
