.TH uuencode 5
.SH Name
uuencode \- format of an encoded uuencode file
.SH Description
.NXR "uuencode file" "format"
.NXAM "uuencode command" "uuencode file"
Files output by 
.MS uuencode 1c
consist of a header line,
followed by a number of body lines,
and a trailer line.
The
.PN uudecode
command ignores any lines preceding the header or
following the trailer.
Lines preceding a header must not, of course,
look like a header.
.PP
The header line is distinguished by having the first
six characters by the word 
``begin'',
followed by a space.
The next item on the line is a mode (in octal)
and a string which names the remote file.
A space separates the three items in the header line.
.PP
The body consists of a number of lines, each at most 62 characters
long including the trailing new line.
These consist of a character count,
followed by encoded characters,
followed by a new line.
The character count is a single printing character
and represents an integer, the number of bytes
the rest of the line represents.
Such integers are always in the range from 0 to 63 and can
be determined by subtracting the character space (octal 40)
from the character.
.PP
Groups of 3 bytes are stored in 4 characters, 
with 6 bits per character.
All are offset by a space to make the characters print.
The last line may be shorter than the normal 45 bytes.
If the size is not a multiple of 3, this fact can be determined
by the value of the count on the last line.
Extra dummy characters are included to 
make the character count a multiple of 4.
The body is terminated by a line with a count of zero.
This line consists of one ASCII space.
.PP
The trailer line consists of \*(lqend\*(rq on a line by itself.
.SH See Also
mail(1), uucp(1c), uudecode(1c), uuencode(1c), uusend(1c)
