.\" SCCSID: @(#)inet.4f	8.1	9/11/90
.TH inet 4f 
.SH Name
inet \- Internet protocol family
.SH Syntax
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <netinet/in.h>
.SH Description
.NXR "inet keyword"
.NXR "Internet protocol family"
.NXA "Internet protocol family" "IP transport protocol"
.NXA "Internet protocol family" "ICMP error and control message protocol"
.NXS "Transmission Control Protocol" "tcp protocol"
.NXA "UDP" "Internet protocol family"
.NXS "User Datagram Protocol" "UDP"
The Internet protocol family is a collection of protocols
that is layered on the Internet Protocol
(IP) transport layer and that uses the Internet address format.
The Internet family provides protocol support for the
SOCK_STREAM, SOCK_DGRAM, and SOCK_RAW socket types.  The
SOCK_RAW interface provides access to the IP protocol.
.SH Addressing
.NXR "Internet address"
Internet addresses are 4-byte quantities, stored in
network standard format.
The include file
.PN <\&netinet/in.h\&>
defines this address
as a discriminated union.
.PP
Sockets bound to the Internet protocol family use
the following addressing structure:
.NXR "Internet protocol family" "socket addressing structure"
.EX
struct sockaddr_in {
	short	sin_family;
	u_short	sin_port;
	struct	in_addr sin_addr;
	char	sin_zero[8];
};
.EE
Sockets may be created with the address INADDR_ANY
to effect ``wildcard'' matching on incoming messages. 
.SH Protocols
.NXR "Internet protocol family" "contents"
The Internet protocol family comprises
the IP transport protocol, Internet Control
Message Protocol (ICMP), Transmission Control
Protocol (TCP), and User Datagram Protocol (UDP).
TCP is used to support the SOCK_STREAM
abstraction, while UDP is used to support the SOCK_DGRAM
abstraction.  A raw interface to IP and ICMP is available
by creating an Internet socket of type SOCK_RAW.
.\"The ICMP message protocol is directly accessible.
.SH See Also
tcp(4p), udp(4p), ip(4p)
.\"SOCK_RAW is not supported by Digital Equipment Corporation
