.\" march 88 lqf print filter manpage (Dave Gray)
.TH lqf 4
.SH Name
lqf \- general purpose letter quality filter
.SH Syntax
/usr/lib/lpdfilters/lqf [\fB\-c\fP] [\fB\-n\fP\fIlogin\fP] [\fB\-h\fP\fIhost\fP] [\fB\-w\fP\fIwidth\fP] [\fB\-l\fP\fInum\fP] [\fB\-i\fP\fIindent\fP]  [\fBaccounting file\fP]
.SH Description
The 
.PN lqf
filter is used to filter text data destined for a letter quality printer,
specifically the lqp02, but will work with any impact printer: LP25, LP26, LP27,
LA50, LA75, LA100, LA120, LA210, and LG01. The filter allows escape
characters and control sequences to pass through to the printer.
The filter handles the device dependencies of 
the printers and performs accounting functions. 
Accounting records are written to the file specified by the 
\fBaf\fP field in 
.PN /etc/printcap
at the time of completion for each job.
.PP
The filter can handle plain ASCII files and files that have been preprocessed
by 
.PN nroff .
However, it ignores escape sequences requesting superscripting and subscripting.
.PP
The 
.PN lqf
filter can be the specified filter in both the \fBof\fP
and the \fBif\fP fields in the
.PN /etc/printcap
file.  For further information, see printcap 5 .
When both fields are specified, the \fBof\fP filter is used only
to print the banner page.  It is then stopped to allow the 
\fBif\fP filter access to the printer. The
\fBif\fP filter maintains accounting information.
.PP
If the \fBof\fP field is the only one specified, the filter is used to print the
banner page.  It is then stopped and restarted. 
This allows the \fBof\fP filter to be
used to maintain accounting information.
.PP
If the \fBif\fP field is the only one specified, the banner
page will be sent directly to
the printer. This is not a problem for most impact printers.
For a more detailed discussion on filters see the
``Line Printer Spooler Manual'' in 
The Supplementary Documents.
.SH Options
The arguments passed to the filter depend on its use.
The \fBof\fP filter is called with the
following arguments:
.IP "lqf \fB\-w\fP\fIwidth\fP \fB\-l\fP\fIlength\fP"
The \fIwidth\fP and \fIlength\fP values come from the \fBpw\fP and \fBpl\fP 
fields in the 
.PN /etc/printcap
database. The \fBif\fP (or restarted \fBof\fP) filter is passed
the following arguments:
.IP "lqf \fB\-c\fP \fB\-n\fP\fIlogin\fP \fB\-h\fP\fIhost\fP \fB\-w\fP\fIwidth\fP \fB\-l\fP\fInum\fP \fB\-i\fP\fIindent\fP  \fBaccounting file\fP"
.PP
The \fB\-c\fP flag is optional, and supplied only when control
characters are to be printed, that is, when
the \fB\-l\fP option of lpr(1) is used to print the file.
The \fB\-w\fP and \fB\-l\fP arguments are 
the same as for the \fBof\fP filter. However, they may have different values
if the \fB\-w\fP or \fB\-z\fP options of
.MS pr 1
were used to print the file.  The \fB\-n\fP and \fB\-h\fP arguments 
specify the login name and host name of the job owner.
These arguments are used to record
accounting information. The \fB\-i\fP option specifies 
the amount of indentation to be used. The last argument is the
name of the accounting file 
specified from the \fBaf\fP field in the 
.PN /etc/printcap
database.
.SH Diagnostics
The \fBlf\fP field (default "/dev/null") in the 
.PN /etc/printcap
database specifies error 
logging file name.
.SH Files
.TP 20
.PN /etc/printcap
Printer Capabilities Database
.TP
.PN /dev/lp?
.SH See Also
lpr(1), pr(1), printcap(5), lpd(8), MAKEDEV(8), pac(8)
.br
.I "Line Printer Spooler Manual"
