.\" SCCSID: @(#)lta.4	8.1	9/11/90
.TH lta 4 
.SH Name
lta \- lta pseudoterminal interface
.SH Syntax
.br
.B options LAT
.br
.B pseudo-device lat
.br
\fBpseudo-device lta\fB[\fIn\fB]
.SH Description
.NXR "lta pseudoterminal interface"
.NXM "Local Area Transport (LAT) interface" "lta pseudoterminal interface"
The
.PN lta
pseudoterminal interface provides support for
local area transport (LAT) service.
LAT service allows users to access remote nodes through the Ethernet.
.PP
To configure the LAT service for your machine, you must:
.IP \(bu 4
Edit the system configuration file.
.IP \(bu 4
Edit the 
.PN /etc/rc.local 
file.
.IP \(bu 4
Create LAT special files.
.IP \(bu 4 
Edit the 
.PN /etc/ttys 
file.
.PP
Instructions for performing these tasks are further documented in the 
.I Guide to Ethernet Communications Servers.
.SS Edit the Configuration File
.NXR "LAT service" "editing configuration file for"
.NXR "configuration file" "editing for LAT service" 
Edit the configuration file to include
the 
.PN LAT
option and the 
.PN lat
and
.PN lta
pseudo-devices.
The configuration file to edit is located in 
\f(CW/sys/conf/vax/\fIHOSTNAME\fR
or 
\f(CW/sys/conf/mips/\fIHOSTNAME\fR
(depending on your processor), where
.I HOSTNAME 
is the name of your host processor, in uppercase.
.PP
The optional value for the 
.PN lta
pseudo-device entry defines the number
of LAT lines to configure, a number between 1 and 256.
If you do not specify a value, the default is
16 lines.  For example, if you want to configure 32 LAT devices into your
system, the 
entry for the LAT lines is:
.EX
pseudo-device lta32
.EE
.PP
To use 
the system as a load host for remote note maintenance functions such as loading and controlling
terminal servers,
you must also include an options entry for
.PN DLI
and a pseudo-device entry
for 
.PN dli
in the configuration file.
.SS Edit the /etc/rc.local File
.NXR "LAT service" "restarting with /etc/rc.local file"
Edit the 
.PN /etc/rc.local 
file to restart LAT service
automatically when the system reboots.
Add the following entry after
the commands for local daemon startup:
.EX 0
if [ \-f /etc/lcp ]; then
     /etc/lcp \-s > /dev/console & echo \-n ' lat' >/dev/console
fi
.EE
.SS Create LAT Special Files
.NXR "LAT service" "creating LAT special files"
.NXR "LAT special files" "creating"
Create the LAT special files by running the 
.PN MAKEDEV 
program from the
.PN /dev
directory and specifying the 
.PN lta 
option.
You create one LAT special file for each LAT device.
For example, the following 
.PN MAKEDEV 
commands create 32 device special files for LAT devices:
.EX 
# \f(CBcd /dev\f(CW
# \f(CBMAKEDEV lta0\f(CW
# \f(CBMAKEDEV lta1\f(CW
.EE
.PP
The option range is 1 to 7.  The maximum 
number of LAT special files is 256.  
.PP
.SS Edit the /etc/ttys File
.NXR "LAT service" "editing the /etc/ttys file"
Edit the 
.PN /etc/ttys
file to include entries for all the LAT special files
you created using the 
.PN MAKEDEV
command.
For more information on how to add these entries, see
.MS ttys 5 .
.SH Files
.TP 15
.PN /dev/tty??
Contains terminal devices defined to the machine.
.TP 
.PN /dev/ttyd?
Contains terminal devices defined to the machine (modem lines only).
.SH See Also
ttys(5), MAKEDEV(8)
.br
.I Guide to Ethernet Communications Servers
