.\" SCCSID: @(#)ne.4	3.1	11/24/87
.TH ne 4 
.SH Name
ne \- Second Generation Ethernet Chip Interface
.SH Syntax
.nf
\fBdevice ne0 at ibus? vector neintr\fR
.\"\fBdevice ne0 at vba0 csr 0x200e0000 vector neintr\fR
.fi
.\".PP
.\"The second line is used for busless small VAX processors.  Other
.\"processors would use the first line. 
.SH Description
.NXR "ne interface" "Ethernet interface"
.NXR "Lance Ethernet interface"
The
.PN ne 
interface provides access to a 10 Mb/s Ethernet network through
the Digital's Second Generation Ethernet Chip (SGEC) based controller.
.PP
The host's Internet address is specified at boot time with
an SIOCSIFADDR ioctl.
The
.PN ne 
interface employs the address resolution protocol described in
.MS arp 4p
to map dynamically between Internet and Ethernet addresses on the local
network.
.PP
The 
.PN ne 
driver normally tries to use a trailer encapsulation
to minimize copying data on input and output.  This can be
disabled for an interface by setting the IFF_NOTRAILERS
flag with an SIOCSIFFLAGS ioctl.
Trailers are only used for packets destined for Internet hosts.
.PP
The SIOCSPHYSADDR ioctl can be used to change 
the physical address of the adapter and the
SIOCRPHYSADDR ioctl can
be used to read its physical address.
.PP
The SIOCADDMULTI and SIOCDELMULTI ioctls can be used to add or delete
multicast addresses.  
The 
.PN SGEC 
recognizes a maximum of 16 multicast addresses.
.PP
The SIOCRDCTRS and SIOCRDZCTRS ioctls can be used to read or 
read and clear the Ethernet driver counters.
The argument to these two ioctls is a pointer to a counter
structure, 
.PN ctrreq, 
found in 
.PN <net/if.h> .
.PP
The SIOCENABLBACK and SIOCDISABLBACK ioctls can be used to enable
and disable the interface loopback mode respectively.
.SH Diagnostics
The diagnostic error messages contain relevant information provided
by the 
.PN ne 
driver. For example,
.PP
.B "ne%d: self test failed <reason lists>
.br
Adapter did not pass the power-up self-test during autoconfiguration
time.
.PP
.B "ne%d: write CSR0 failed 
.br
The 
.PN ne 
driver was unable to set the initial value for the adapter.
.PP
.B "ne%d: couldn't allocate ......
.br
The 
.PN ne 
driver was unable to allocate memory for the internal data
structures.
.B "ne%d: can't handle af%d"
.br
The interface was handed
a message with addresses formated in an unsuitable address
family, and the packet was dropped.
.PP
.B "ne%d: memory error (MERR)"
.br
A host memory problem or a memory parity error has occurred.
.PP
.B "ne%d: SIOCADDMULTI fail, multicast list full"
.br
Too many multicast requests have been made. 
.SH See Also
arp(4p), inet(4f), intro(4n)
