.\" SCCSID: @(#)qe.4	8.1	9/11/90
.TH qe 4
.SH Name
qe \- DEQNA/DELQA Ethernet interface
.SH Syntax
.B "device qe0 at uba0 csr 0174440 vector qeintr"
.SH Description
.NXS "qe interface" "DEQNA Ethernet interface"
.NXS "qe interface" "DELQA Ethernet interface"
.NXR "DEQNA Ethernet interface"
.NXR "DELQA Ethernet interface"
.NXS "Ethernet interface" "DEQNA Ethernet interface"
.NXS "Ethernet interface" "DELQA Ethernet interface"
.NXA "Address Resolution Protocol" "DEQNA Ethernet interface"
.NXA "Address Resolution Protocol" "DELQA Ethernet interface"
The
.PN qe
interface provides access to a 10 Mb/s Ethernet network through
a DEQNA/DELQA controller.
.PP
The host's Internet address is specified at boot time with an 
SIOCSIFADDR ioctl.  The
.PN qe
interface employs the address resolution protocol described in
.MS arp 4p
to dynamically map between Internet and Ethernet addresses on the local
network.
.PP
The interface normally tries to use a ``trailer'' encapsulation
to minimize copying data on input and output.  This can be
disabled for an interface by setting the IFF_NOTRAILERS
flag with an SIOCSIFFLAGS ioctl.
Trailers are only used for packets destined for Internet hosts.
.PP
The SIOCSPHYSADDR ioctl can be used to change and SIOCRPHYSADDR can
be used to read the physical address of the board.  SIOCADDMULTI 
and SIOCDELMULTI can be used to add  or delete multicast addresses.  
The board recognizes at most 10 multicast addresses. The argument 
to the latter ioctls is a pointer to an ifreq structure found in 
<net/if.h>.
.PP
SIOCRDCTRS and SIOCRDZCTRS ioctls can be used to read or 
``read and clear'' the board counters. The argument to the latter 
two ioctls is a pointer to a counter structure "ctrreq" found 
in 
.PN <net/if.h> .
.PP
The ioctls SIOCENABLBACK and SIOCDISABLBACK can be used to enable
and disable the interface loopback mode.
.SH Restrictions
The PUP protocol family is not supported.
.SH Diagnostics
Various error messages can occur while transmitting or receiving
packets.  For example,
.PP
.B "qe%d: can't handle af%d"
.br
The interface was handed
a message with addresses formatted in an unsuitable address
family; the packet was dropped.
.SH See Also
arp(4p), inet(4f), intro(4n)
