.\" SCCSID: @(#)tz.4	3.1	11/24/87
.TH tz 4
.SH Name
tz \- SCSI magnetic tape interface
.SH Syntax
.ta .2i 1.5i 2.3i 3.4i
VAX NCR 5380:
.br
	\fBadapter	uba0	at nexus?    
.br
	controller	scsi0	at uba0		csr 0x200c0080  vector szintr 
.br
	tape	tz0	at scsi0	drive 0\fP
.PP     
VAX DEC SII:
.br
	\fBadapter	ibus0	at nexus?
.br
	controller	sii0	at ibus?	vector sii_intr 
.br
	tape	tz0	at sii0		drive 0\fP
.PP     
RISC DEC SII:
.br
	\fBadapter	ibus0	at nexus?    
.br
	controller	sii0	at ibus?	vector sii_intr 
.br
	tape	tz0	at sii0	drive 0\fP
.PP
RISC DEC KZQ:
.br
	\fBadapter	uba0	at nexus?    
.br
	controller	kzq0	at ibus? csr 0761300	vector sii_intr 
.br
	tape	tz0	at kzq0	drive 0\fP
.PP
RISC NCR ASC:
.br
	\fBadapter	ibus0	at nexus?    
.br
	controller	asc0	at ibus?	vector ascintr 
.br
	tape	tz0	at asc0	drive 0\fP
.SH Description
The SCSI
tape driver provides a standard tape drive interface
as described in
.MS mtio 4 .
.NXR "tz interface" "SCSI magnetic tape interface"
.NXR "SCSI magnetic tape interface" "nbuf keyword"
.NXR "TZ30 magnetical tape interface"
.NXR "TK50 magnetic tape interface"
.NXR "TLZ04 magnetic tape interface"
.NXR "TSZ05 magnetic tape interface"
.NXR "TKZ08 magnetic tape interface"
.NXR "TZK10 magnetic tape interface"
.NXR "scsi keyword" "tz interface"
This is a driver for any Digital SCSI tape device.
.PP
For the TZK10 QIC format tape drive, the densities supported are QIC-24
(read only) block size of 512 byte blocks, QIC-120, and QIC-150 read/write
block size of 512 byte blocks, and QIC-320 read/write block size of 1024 byte
blocks.  With QIC format style tapes all reads and writes must be
in multiple of the block size.  This is a requirement of fixed block
tape drives because record boundaries are not preserved.  The QIC densities
are selected using the following special device names:
.PP
.PN rmt?a
	QIC-24 Fixed block size.
.br
.PN rmt?l
	QIC-120 Fixed block size.
.br
.PN rmt?m
	QIC-150 Fixed block size.
.br
.PN rmt?h
	QIC-320 Fixed block size.
.PP
With all fixed block tape devices a
.PN dd
of a file to the tape must
be padded out.  An example of this is a
.PN dd
of
.PN /etc/gettytab
which
has a size of approximately 3800 bytes.
.EX
dd if=/etc/gettytab of=/dev/rmt0h bs=10k conv=sync
	or 
.br
dd if=/etc/gettytab of=/dev/rmt0l bs=512 conv=sync
.EE
The option of
.PN conv=sync
pads the output to block size.
.PP
This driver also supports n-buffered reads and writes to
the raw tape interface (used with streaming tape drives).
See
.MS nbuf 4
for further details.
.SH Tape Support
TZ30, TZK50, TLZ04, TSZ05, TKZ08, TZK10
.SH Diagnostics
All diagnostic messages are sent to the error logger subsystem.
.SH Files
.PN /dev/rmt???
.br
.PN /dev/nrmt???
.SH See Also
mtio(4), nbuf(4), SCSI(4), MAKEDEV(8), uerf(8), tapex(8)
.br
\fIGuide to the Error Logger\fP
