.\" SCCSID: @(#)xna.4	6.2	7/28/89
.TH xna 4
.SH Name
xna \- DEBNI and DEMNA Ethernet interfaces
.SH Syntax
.nf
\fBdevice xna0 at vaxbi? node? vector xnaintr\fP (DEBNI)
\fBdevice xna0 at xmi? node? vector xnaintr\fP (DEMNA)
.fi
.SH Description
.NXR "xna interface" "DEBNI interface and DEMNA interface"
.NXR "DEBNI interface and DEMNA interface"
.NXR "Ethernet address" "mapping to Internet address"
.NXR "Internet address" "mapping to Ethernet address"
The
.PN xna
driver provides access to a 10 Mbytes Ethernet network through
the DEBNI and DEMNA adapters.  The DEBNI is an Ethernet to BI bus.
The DEMNA is an Ethernet to XMI adapter.
.PP
The host's Internet address is specified at boot time with an 
SIOCSIFADDR ioctl.  The
.PN xna
driver employs the Address Resolution Protocol, as described in
.MS arp 4p ,
to map dynamically between Internet and Ethernet addresses on the local
network.
.PP
The 
.PN xna
driver normally tries to use a trailer encapsulation
to minimize copying data on input and output.  This can be
disabled for an interface by setting the IFF_NOTRAILERS
flag with an SIOCSIFFLAGS ioctl.
Trailers are used only for packets destined for Internet hosts.
.PP
The SIOCSPHYSADDR ioctl can be used to change the physical address
of the adapter and SIOCRPHYSADDR can
be used to read its physical address.  SIOCADDMULTI 
and SIOCDELMULTI can be used to add or delete multicast addresses.  
The 
.PN xna 
driver supports a maximum of 12 multicast 
addresses. The argument 
to the latter ioctls is a pointer to an ``ifreq'' structure found in 
.PN <net/if.h> .
.PP
SIOCRDCTRS and SIOCRDZCTRS ioctls can be used to read or 
read and clear network counters. The argument to the latter 
two ioctls is a pointer to a counter structure ``ctrreq'' found in 
.PN <net/if.h> .
.PP
The ioctls SIOCENABLBACK and SIOCDISABLBACK can be used to enable
and disable the interface loopback mode.
.SH Restrictions
The PUP protocol family is not supported. 
.SH Diagnostics
.sp
.B xna%d: port self-test failed:\<\fIregister list\fP\>
.br
Adapter did not pass the power-up self-test during autoconfiguration 
time. The port attachment fails.
.PP 
.B xna%d: couldn't allocate...
.br
The
.PN xna
driver was unable to allocate memory for adapter data structures. 
The port attachment fails.
.PP
.B xna%d: port probe failed:\<\fIregister list\fP\>
.br
The
.PN xna
driver was unable to bring the adapter into the initialized state. 
The port attachment fails.
.PP 
.B xna%d: port init failed:\<\fIregister list\fP\>
.br
The
.PN xna
driver failed to prepare the adapter for runtime use.
.PP 
.B xna%d: port state changed, resetting:\<\fIregister list\fP\>
.br
The adapter issued a port state change interrupt. The port state is reset.
.PP 
.B xna%d: port reset failed
.br
The
.PN xna
driver was unable to bring the adapter into the 
initialized state during a port reset. 
.PP 
.B xna%d: command failed, error code:\<\fIerror code\fP\>
.br
The adapter port command failed. The
.I error code 
gives reason for failure.
.PP 
.B xna%d: couldn't handle af%d
.br
A packet with an undefined protocol type has been sent to the adapter.
.PP 
.B xna%d: addmulti failed, multicast list full
.br
Too many multicast requests have been made.
.SH See Also
arp(4p), inet(4f), intro(4n)
