.TH addch 3cur
.SH Name
addch, waddch, mvaddch, mvwaddch \- add character to window
.SH Syntax
.B
#include <cursesX.h>
.PP
.br
.B
int addch(ch)
.br
.B
chtype ch;
.PP
.B
int waddch(win, ch)
.br
.B
WINDOW \(**win;
.br
.B
chtype ch;
.PP
.B
int mvaddch(y, x, ch)
.br
.B
int y, x;
.br
.B
chtype ch;
.PP
.B
int mvwaddch(win, y, x, ch)
.br
.B
WINDOW \(**win;
.br
.B
int y, x;
.br
.B
chtype ch;
.SH Description
.NXR "addch macro"
.NXR "waddch subroutine"
.NXR "mvaddch macro"
.NXR "mvwaddch macro"
.NXA "addch macro" "putchar subroutine"
The routine 
.PN addch 
inserts the character
.PN ch
into the default window at the current cursor position and
the window cursor is advanced. 
The character is of the type
.PN chtype
which is defined in the
.PN <cursesX.h>
header file, as containing both data and attributes.
.PP
The routine 
.PN waddch 
inserts the character
.PN ch
into the specified window at the current cursor position.
The cursor position is advanced.
.PP
The routine 
.PN mvaddch
moves the cursor to the specified (y, x) position and  
inserts the character
.PN ch
into the default window.
The cursor position is advanced after the character has been inserted.
.PP
The routine 
.PN mvwaddch 
moves the cursor to the specified (y, x) position and  
inserts the character
.PN ch
into the specified window.
The cursor position is advanced after the character has been inserted.
.PP
All these routines are
similar to 
.PN putchar .
The following information applies to all the routines.
.PP
If the cursor moves on to 
the right margin, an automatic newline is performed.
If 
.PN scrollok 
is enabled,
and a character is added to the bottom right corner of the screen,
the scrolling region will be scrolled up one line.
If scrolling is not allowed, ERR will be returned.
.PP
If 
.PN ch
is a tab, newline, or backspace, the cursor will be moved appropriately
within the window.
If 
.PN ch
is a newline, 
the 
.PN clrtoeol 
routine is called before the cursor is moved to the beginning 
of the next line.
If newline mapping is off, the cursor will be moved to the 
next line, but the x coordinate will be unchanged.
If 
.PN ch
is a tab the cursor is moved 
to the next tab position within the window.
If 
.PN ch
is another control character, it will be drawn in the ^X notation.
Calling 
the 
.PN inch 
routine after adding a control character 
returns the representation of the control character,
not the control character.
.PP
Video attributes can be combined with a character by or-ing
them
into the parameter.
This will result in these attributes being set.
The intent here is that text, including attributes, can be
copied from one place to another using 
.PN inch 
and 
.PN addch .
For further information, see 
.MS standout 3cur .
.PP
The 
.PN addch, 
.PN mvaddch, 
and 
.PN mvwaddch
routines 
are macros.
.SH Return Values
The
.PN addch ,
.PN waddch ,
.PN mvaddch ,
and
.PN mvwaddch
functions return OK on success and ERR on error.
.SH See Also
clrtoeol(3cur), inch(3cur), scrollok(3cur), standout(3cur), putchar(3s)
