.TH addstr 3cur 
.SH Name
addstr, waddstr, mvaddstr, mvwaddstr \- add string to window
.SH Syntax
.br
.B
#include <cursesX.h>
.PP
.br
.B
int addstr(str)
.br
.B
char \(**str;
.PP
.B
int waddstr(win, str)
.br
.B
WINDOW \(**win;
.br
.B
char \(**str;
.PP
.B
int mvaddstr(y, x, str)
.br
.B
int y, x;
.br
.B
char \(**str;
.PP
.B
int mvwaddstr(win, y, x, str)
.br
.B
WINDOW \(**win;
.br
.B
int y, x;
.br
.B
char \(**str;
.SH Description
.NXR "addstr macro"
.NXR "waddstr subroutine"
.NXR "mvaddstr macro"
.NXR "mvwaddstr macro"
The 
.PN addstr
routine 
writes all the characters of the
null-terminated character string 
.PN str
on the default window at the current (y, x) coordinates.
.PP
The routine 
.PN waddstr
writes all the characters of the
null terminated character string 
.PN str
on the specified window at the current (y, x) coordinates.
.PP
The routine 
.PN mvaddstr
writes all the characters of the
null terminated character string 
.PN str
on the default window at the specified (y, x) coordinates.
.PP
The routine 
.PN mvwaddstr
writes all the characters of the
null terminated character string 
.PN str
on the specified window at the specified (y, x) coordinates.
.PP
The following information applies to all the routines.
All the routines return
.PN ERR
if writing the string causes illegal scrolling.
In this case
the routine will write as much as possible of the string
on the window.
.PP
These routines are functionally
equivalent to calling 
.PN addch 
or
.PN waddch 
once for each character in the string.
.PP
The routines 
.PN addstr, 
.PN mvaddstr, 
and 
.PN mvwaddstr
are macros.
.SH Return Values
The
.PN addstr ,
.PN waddstr ,
.PN mvaddstr ,
and
.PN mvwaddstr
functions return OK on success and ERR on error.
.SH See Also
addch(3cur), waddch(3cur)
