.\" SCCSID: @(#)audgenl.3x        x.x     01/21/90
.TH audgenl 3x
.SH Name
audgenl \- generate an audit record
.SH Syntax
#include<sys/audit.h>
.PP
int audgenl (\fIevent\fP [ ,\fItoken_type\fP, \fItoken_val\fP] ... , 0 )
.br
unsigned \fIevent\fP;
.SH Arguments
.TP 2 
\fIevent\fP
An integer that indicates the event type of the operation being audited.
.TP 2
\fItoken_type,token_val\fP
A type and value pair defining the data to be placed in the audit record.
.SH Description
.NXR "audgenl library routine"
This routine is an interface to the 
.MS  audgen 2
system call.  
It
accepts a variable number of arguments describing the event
and audit data, then calls 
.MS audgen 2
with the appropriate parameters to
generate the audit record.  
This routine is found in the 
.PN libaud.a
library and is loaded with the 
.B -laud
option.
.PP
The argument \fIevent\fP is an integer indicating the event type of the
operation being audited, as defined in  
.PN audit.h .
The value of \fIevent\fP
must be between MIN_TRUSTED_EVENT and
MIN_TRUSTED_EVENT + N_TRUSTED_EVENTS-1, as defined in 
.PN audit.h .
.\"
.\" The next lines are to be included when V4.3 is ready:
.\" , or between MIN_SITE_EVENT and
.\" MIN_SITE_EVENT + N_SITE_EVENTS-1.  
.\" The definintion of N_SITE_EVENTS is found in
.\" .PN /sys/data/audit_data.c . 
.\"
The argument pairs
containing \fItoken_type\fP and \fItoken_val\fP describe the data
that is to be placed into the audit record.  The 
argument \fItoken_type\fP describes
the type of data, as defined in 
.PN audit.h .
.PP
The argument
\fItoken_val\fP 
should be set to the value of the token when the token is represented by an
int or short data type, or be a pointer to the data described by the token when the
token references a character string.  
.SH Restrictions
The 
.MS audgen 2
system call is privileged. 
.PP
The maximum number of \fItoken_type\fP, \fItoken_val\fP pairs allowed
is 8.
.SH Return Values
On successful completion, a value of 0 is returned.  Otherwise, a
value of \-1 is returned and the global integer variable 
.I errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH Diagnostics
.TP 18
[EACCES]
The user is not privileged for this operation.
.TP 18
[EINVAL]
The value supplied for an argument is invalid. 
.SH See Also
.MS audgen 2
