.TH catgets 3int
.SH Name
catgets \- read a program message
.SH Syntax
.B #include <nl_types.h>
.PP
.B char *catgets (\fIcatd, set_num, msg_num, s\fP)
.br
.B nl_catd \fIcatd\fP;
.br
.B int \fIset_num, msg_num\fP;
.br
.B char *\fIs\fP;
.SH Description
.NXR "catgets subroutine"
The function
.PN catgets
attempts to read message 
.I msg_num
in set 
.I set_num 
from the message catalog identified by 
.I catd. 
The parameter 
.I catd  
is a catalog descriptor returned from an earlier call to
.PN catopen .
The pointer, \fIs\fP, points to a default message string.
The
.PN catgets
function returns the default message if the identified message catalog
is not currently available.
.PP
The
.PN catgets
function stores the message text it returns in an internal buffer
area.  This buffer area might be written over by a subsequent call to
.PN catgets .
If you want to re-use or modify the message text, you should copy it 
to another location.
.PP
The arguments 
.I set_num
and 
.I msg_num
are defined as integer values to make programs that contain the 
.PN catgets
call portable.  Where possible, you should use symbolic names for message and 
set numbers, instead of hard-coding integer values into your source programs.
If you use symbolic names, you must include the header file that 
.PN gencat 
.PN &\-h
creates in all your program modules.
.SH Examples
The following example shows using the 
.PN catgets
call to retrieve a message from a message catalog that uses symbolic
names for set and message numbers:
.EX
nl_catd catd = catopen (messages.msf, 0)
message = catgets (catd, error_set, bad_value, "Invalid value")
.EE
When this call executes, 
.PN catgets
searches for the message catalog identified by the catalog descriptor
stored in
.PN catd .
The function searches for the message identified by the 
.PN bad_value
symbolic name in the set identified by the
.PN error_set
symbolic name and stores the message text in
.PN message .
If 
.PN catgets
cannot find the message, it returns the message Invalid value.
.SH Return Values
If 
.PN catgets
successfully retrieves the message, it returns a pointer to an internal buffer 
area containing the null terminated message string.
If the call is unsuccessful for any reason,
.I catgets
returns the default message in \fIs\fP.
.SH See Also
intro(3int), gencat(1int), catgetmsg(3int), catopen(3int), nl_types(5int)
.br
.I Guide to Developing International Software
