.TH getch 3cur 
.SH Name
getch, mvgetch, mvwgetch, wgetch \- read character
.SH Syntax
.B
#include <cursesX.h>
.PP
.B
int getch(\|)
.PP
.B
int wgetch(win)
.br
.B
WINDOW \(**win;
.PP
.B
int mvgetch(y, x)
.br
.B
int y, x;
.PP
.B
int mvwgetch(win, y, x)
.br
.B
WINDOW \(**win;
.br
.B
int y, x;
.SH Description
.NXR "getch macro"
.NXR "mvgetch macro"
.NXR "mvwgetch macro"
.NXR "wgetch subroutine"
The
.PN getch
routine
reads a character from the 
terminal associated with 
the default window.
.PP
The
.PN wgetch
routine
reads a character from 
the terminal associated with 
the specified window.
.PP
The routine
.PN mvgetch
reads a character from 
the terminal associated with 
the default window at the specified 
position.
.PP
The routine
.PN mvwgetch
reads a character from 
the terminal associated with 
the specified 
window at the specified 
position.
.PP 
The following information applies to all the routines.
In
.PN nodelay
mode, if there is no input waiting, the integer
.PN ERR
is returned.
In
.PN delay
mode, 
the program waits until the system passes text through to
the program.
Usually the program will restart
after one character or after the first newline,
but this depends on how 
.PN cbreak 
is set.
The character will be echoed on the designated window unless
.PN noecho 
has been set.
.PP
If 
.PN keypad 
is 
.PN TRUE, 
and a function key is pressed, the token for that function
key is returned instead of the raw characters.
Possible function keys are defined in the
.PN <cursesX.h>
header file with integers beginning with
0401.
The function key names begin with
KEY_.
Function keys and their respective integer values are described
in the 
.I 
Guide to X/Open Curses Screen-Handling
.R
.PP
If a character is received that could be the beginning of a function key
(such as escape),
.PN curses
sets a timer.
If the remainder of the sequence does 
not come within the designated time, 
the character will be passed through, 
otherwise the function key value is returned.
Consequently, there may be a delay after a
user presses the escape key before the escape is returned to the program.
.PP
Using 
the escape key for a single character function is
discouraged.
.PP
The routines
.PN getch, 
.PN mvgetch
and 
.PN mvwgetch
are macros.
.SH Return Values
Upon successful completion, the 
.PN getch ,
.PN mvgetch ,
and
.PN wgetch
functions return the character read.
.PP
If in delay mode and no data is available, ERR is returned.
.SH See Also
cbreak(3cur), keypad(3cur), nodelay(3cur), noecho(3cur)
.br
.I "Guide to X/Open Curses Screen-Handling"
