.\" SCCSID: @(#)getnetgrent.3yp	8.1	9/11/90
.TH getnetgrent 3yp
.SH Name
getnetgrent, setnetgrent, endnetgrent, innetgr \- get network group entry
.SH Syntax
.nf
.ft B
innetgr(netgroup, machine, user, domain)
char *netgroup, *machine, *user, *domain;
.sp.5
setnetgrent(netgroup)
char *netgroup
.sp.5
endnetgrent()
.sp.5
getnetgrent(machinep, userp, domainp)
char **machinep, **userp, **domainp;
.fi
.SH Description
.NXR "getnetgrent subroutine"
.NXR "setnetgrent subroutine"
.NXR "endnetgrent subroutine"
.NXR "innetgr subroutine"
.NXR "netgroup file" "getting member entry"
.NXA "netgroup file" "innetgr subroutine"
The 
.PN innetgr
routine accesses the
.PN netgroup
file and checks to see if
the specified input parameters match an entry in the
file.
The routine
returns 1 if it matches an entry, or 0 if it does not.
Any of the three strings; 
.B machine, 
.B user, 
or 
.B domain 
can be NULL, which signifies any string in that position is valid.
.PP
The 
.PN getnetgrent 
routine returns the next member of a network group.  After the call,
.PN machinep 
will contain a pointer to a string containing the name
of the machine part of the network group member, and similarly
for 
.B userp 
and 
.B domainp.
If 
.B machinep, 
.B userp 
or 
.B domainp 
is 
returned as a NULL pointer, it signifies any string is valid.
The 
.PN getnetgrent
routine allocates space for the name
by using the
.PN malloc 
routine.
This space is released when an 
.PN endnetgrent
call is made.
The 
.PN getnetgrent
routine returns 1 if it succeeds in obtaining another
member of the network group, or 0 if it reaches the
end of the group.
.PP
The 
.PN setnetgrent
routine establishes the network group from which 
.PN getnetgrent
will obtain members, and also restarts calls to
.PN getnetgrent
from the beginning of the list.  If the previous 
.PN setnetgrent
call was to a different network group, an 
.PN endnetgrent
call is implied.
.PP
The
.PN endnetgrent
routine releases the space allocated during the 
.PN getnetgrent
calls.
.SH Files
.nf
/etc/netgroup
/etc/yp/\fIdomain\fP/netgroup
/etc/yp/\fIdomain\fP/netgroup.byuser
/etc/yp/\fIdomain\fP/netgroup.byhost
.fi
