.TH lb_unregister 3ncs
.SH Name
lb_unregister \- remove an entry from the Location Broker database
.SH Syntax
.nf
#include <idl/c/lb.h>

void lb_$unregister(\fIentry, status\fP)
lb_$entry_t *\fIentry;\fR
status_$t *\fIstatus;\fR
.fi
.\".SH SYNOPSIS (PASCAL)
.\".DS
.\"\fB%include '/usr/include/idl/pas/lb.ins.pas'\fR
.\"
.\"\fBprocedure lb_$unregister(\fR
.\"	\fBout \fIentry\fB: lb_$entry_t;\fR
.\"	\fBout \fIstatus\fB: status_$t);\fR
.\".DE
.SH Arguments
.TP
\fIentry\fR
The entry being removed from the Location Broker database.
.TP
\fIstatus\fR
The completion status.
If the completion status returned in
.PN status\&.all
is equal to
.B status_$ok ,
then the routine that supplied it was successful.
.SH Description
The 
.PN lb_$unregister
routine removes from the Location Broker database
the entry that matches 
.I entry.
.NXR "Interface to the Location Broker" "lb_unregister"
The value of 
.I entry
should be identical to that returned by the 
.PN lb_$register
routine when the database entry was created.
However, 
.PN lb_$unregister
does not compare all of the fields in 
.I entry,
the
.B annotation
field, and the port number in the
.B saddr
field.
.PP
This routine removes the entry from the LLB database on the local host 
(the host that issues the routine).
If the 
.B flags
field of 
.I entry
is equal to 0, it removes the entry from the GLB database.  If
the
.B flags
field is equal to 
.B lb_$server_flag_local,
it deletes only the LLB entry.
.SH Examples
The following statement unregisters the entry specified by 
.PN BankEntry ,
which was obtained from a previous 
.PN lb_$register
routine:
.EX
lb_$unregister (&BankEntry, &status);
.EE
.SH Diagnostics 
This section lists status codes for errors returned by this
.PN lb_$
routine in
.PN status\&.all .
.TP 20
\fBlb_$database_invalid\fR
The format of the Location Broker database is out of date.
The database may have been created by an old version of the Location Broker; 
in this case, delete the out-of-date database and reregister any entries
that it contained.
The LLB or GLB that was accessed may be running out-of-date software;
in this case, update all Location Brokers to the current software version.
.TP 20
\fBlb_$database_busy\fR
The Location Broker database is currently in use in an incompatible manner.
.TP 20
\fBlb_$not_registered\fR
The Location Broker does not have any entries that match
the criteria specified in the unregister routine.
The requested object, type, interface, or combination thereof
is not registered in the specified database.
.TP 20
\fBlb_$update_failed\fR
The Location Broker was unable to register or unregister the entry.
.TP 20
\fBlb_$cant_access\fR
The Location Broker cannot access the database.
Among the possible reasons:
.IP
1. The database does not exist.
.IP
2. The database exists, but the Location Broker cannot access it.
.TP 20
\fBlb_$server_unavailable\fR
The Location Broker Client Agent cannot reach the requested GLB or LLB.
A communications failure occurred or the broker was not running.
.SH Files
.PN /usr/include/idl/c/glb.h
.SH See Also
intro(3ncs), lb_register(3ncs)
