.\" SCCSID: @(#)mkfifo.3	3.1	11/23/87
.TH mkfifo 3
.SH Name
mkfifo \- make a FIFO special file 
.SH Syntax
.nf
.ft B
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/stat.h>
int mkfifo(path, mode)
char *path;
mode_t mode;
.fi
.ft R
.SH Description
.NXR "mkfifo function"
.NXR "special file" "creating"
The 
.PN mkfifo
function  creates a new FIFO special file
whose name is
.I path.
The file permission bits of the new FIFO 
are initialized from
.IR mode, 
where the value of 
.I mode,
is one (or more) of the file permission bits defined in <sys/stat.h>.
The 
.IR mode
argument is modified by the process's file creation mask (see 
.MS umask 1 ).
.PP
The FIFO's owner ID is set to the process's effective
user ID.  The FIFO's group ID is set to the 
process's effective group ID.
.SH Return Values
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned.  
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and \fIerrno\fP
is set to indicate the error.
.SH Diagnostics
The
.PN mkfifo
function will fail and the FIFO will not be created if:
.TP 15
[EACCES]
A component of the path prefix denies search permission.
.TP 15
[EEXIST]
The named file exists.
.TP 15
[ENAMETOOLONG]
A component of a pathname exceeded 255 characters, or an entire
pathname exceeded 1023 characters.
.TP 15
[ENOTDIR]
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.TP 15
[ENOENT]
A component of the path prefix does not exist or the \fIpath\fP
argument points to an empty string.
.TP 15
[EROFS]
The named file resides on a read-only file system.
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
.I Path
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.TP 15
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname.
.TP 15
[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while making the directory entry.
.TP 15
[ENOSPC]
The directory in which the entry for the new FIFO is being placed
cannot be extended because there is no space left on the
file system.
.TP 15
[ENOSPC]
There are no free inodes on the file system on which
the node is being created.
.TP 15
[EDQUOT]
The directory in which the entry for the new FIFO is being
placed cannot be extended because the user's quota of disk
blocks on the file system containing the directory has been
exhausted.
.TP 15
[EDQUOT]
The user's quota of inodes on the file system on which the
FIFO is being created has been exhausted.
.TP 15
[ESTALE]
The file handle given in the argument is invalid.  The
file referred to by that file handle no longer exists
or has been revoked.
.TP
[ETIMEDOUT]
A connect request or remote file operation failed
because the connected party
did not properly respond after a period
of time which is dependent on the communications protocol.
.SH See Also
mknod(1), umask(1)
