.\"	@(#)pfm_reset_cleanup.3ncs	8.1 of 9/11/90
.TH pfm_reset_cleanup 3ncs
.SH Name
pfm_reset_cleanup \- reset a clean-up handler
.SH Syntax
.nf
#include <idl/c/base.h>\fR
#include <idl/c/pfm.h>\fR

void pfm_$reset_cleanup(\fIcleanup_record, status)\fP
pfm_$cleanup_rec *\fIcleanup_record\fP;
status_$t *\fIstatus\fP;
.fi
.\".SH SYNOPSIS (PASCAL)
.\".DS
.\"\fB%include '/sys/ins/base.ins.pas';\fR
.\"\fB%include '/sys/ins/pfm.ins.pas';\fR
.\"
.\"\fBprocedure pfm_$reset_cleanup(\fR
.\"	\fBin \fIcleanup_record\fB: pfm_$cleanup_rec;\fR
.\"	\fBout \fIstatus\fB: status_$t);\fR
.\".DE
.ig
.SH Synopsis (fortran)
\fB%include '/sys/ins/base.ins.ftn'\fR
\fB%include '/sys/ins/pfm.ins.ftn'\fR

	 \fBinteger*4 \fIcleanup_record\fB(16), \fIstatus\fR

	 \fBcall pfm_$reset_cleanup(\fIcleanup_record\fB, \fIstatus\fB)\fR
..
.SH Arguments
.TP 20 
\fIcleanup_record\fR
A record of the context
at the clean-up handler entry point.
It is supplied by 
.PN pfm_$cleanup ,
when the clean-up handler if first established.
.TP 20
\fIstatus\fR
The completion status.  If the completion status returned in
.PN status\&.all
is equal to \fBstatus_$ok\fP, then the routine that supplied it was successful.
.SH Description
The 
.PN pfm_$reset_cleanup
routine reestablishes
the clean-up handler last entered
so that any subsequent errors enter it first.
This procedure should only be used
within clean-up handler code.
.NXR "Fault Management" "pfm_reset_cleanup"
.SH Diagnostics 
This section lists status codes for errors returned by this 
.PN pfm_$
routine in
.PN status\&.all .
.TP 20
\fBpfm_$bad_rls_order\fR
Attempted to release a clean-up handler out of order.
.TP 20
\fBpfm_$cleanup_not_found\fR
There is no pending clean-up handler.
.TP 20
\fBpfm_$cleanup_set\fR
A clean-up handler was established successfully.
.TP 20
\fBpfm_$invalid_cleanup_rec\fR
Passed an invalid clean-up record to a routine.
.TP 20
\fBpfm_$no_space\fR
Cannot allocate storage for a clean-up handler.
.\".DM "\
.\"path syscalls/pfm/pfm_$reset_cleanup\
.\"type reference\
.\"book syscalls\
.\"chapter pfm\
.\"section pfm_$reset_cleanup\
.\""
.\".DD "\
.\"return(ed)(s)(ing) reset(ed)(s)(ing) clean-up cleanup clean(ed)(s)(ing) up \
.\"handler(s) to top of stack(s) pfm pfm_$\
.\""
.SH Files
.PN /usr/include/idl/c/base.h
.br
.PN /usr/include/idl/base.idl
.br
.PN /usr/include/c/pfm.h
.SH See Also
intro(3ncs)
