.TH prefresh 3cur 
.SH Name
prefresh, pnoutrefresh \- refresh pad
.SH Syntax
.br
.B
#include <cursesX.h>
.PP
.br
.B
int prefresh(pad, pminrow, pmincol, sminrow, smincol, smaxrow, smaxcol)
.br
.B
WINDOW \(**pad;
.br
.B
int pminrow, pmincol, sminrow, smincol, smaxrow, smaxcol;
.PP
.B
int pnoutrefresh(pad, pminrow, pmincol, sminrow, smincol, smaxrow, smaxcol)
.br
.B
WINDOW \(**pad;
.br
.B
int pminrow, pmincol, sminrow, smincol, smaxrow, smaxcol;
.SH Description
.NXR "prefresh subroutine"
.NXR "pnoutrefresh subroutine"
The
.PN prefresh 
routine
copies the specified pad to the physical terminal screen.
It takes account of what is already 
displayed on the screen to optimize cursor movement.
.PP
The 
.PN pnoutrefresh
routine copies the named pad to the virtual screen.  
It then 
compares the virtual screen with the physical screen and
performs the actual update.
.PP
These routines are analogous to 
the routines
.PN wrefresh 
and 
.PN wnoutrefresh 
except that pads, instead of windows, are involved.
Additional parameters are also needed to indicate what part of the pad and
screen are involved.  
The upper left corner
of the part of the pad to be displayed is specified by
.PN pminrow
and 
.PN pmincol .
The co-ordinates
.PN sminrow ,
.PN smincol ,
.PN smaxrow ,
and 
.PN smaxcol
specify the edges of the screen rectangle 
that will contain the selected part 
of the pad.
.PP
The lower right corner of the pad rectangle to be displayed is
calculated from the screen co-ordinates.
This ensures that the screen rectangle and 
the pad rectangle are the same size.
.PP
Both rectangles must be entirely contained within their respective structures.
.SH Return Values
The
.PN prefresh
and
.PN pnoutrefresh
functions return OK on success and ERR on error.
.SH See Also
wnoutrefresh(3cur), wrefresh(3cur)
