.TH rpc_allow_remote_shutdown 3ncs
.SH Name
rpc_allow_remote_shutdown \- allow or disallow remote shutdown of a
server (server only)
.SH Syntax
#include <idl/c/rpc.h>

void rpc_$allow_remote_shutdown(\fIallow, checkproc,
\fIstatus\fP)
.nf
unsigned long \fIallow\fP;
rpc_$shut_check_fn_t \fIcheckproc\fR;
status_$t *\fIstatus\fR;
.fi
.\".SH SYNOPSIS (PASCAL)
.\".DS
.\"\fB%include '/usr/include/idl/pas/rpc.ins.pas'\fR
.\"
.\"\fBprocedure rpc_$allow_remote_shutdown(\fR
.\"	\fBin \fIallow\fB: unsigned32;\fR
.\"	\fBin \fIcheckproc\fB: rpc_$shut_check_fn_t;\fR
.\"	\fBout \fIstatus\fB: status_$t);\fR
.\".DE
.SH Arguments
.TP 20 15
\fIallow\fR
A value indicating `false' if zero, `true' otherwise.
.TP 20 15
\fIcheckproc\fR
A pointer to a Boolean function.
.TP 20 15
\fIstatus\fR
The completion status.  If the completion status returned in
.PN status\&.all
is equal to
.B status_$ok ,
then the routine that supplied it was successful.
.SH Description
The 
.PN rpc_$allow_remote_shutdown
routine allows or disallows remote callers to shut down a server using 
.PN rrpc_$shutdown .
.NXR "Interface to the Remote Procedure Call"
.NXR "rpc_allow_remote_shutdown"
.PP
By default, servers do not allow remote shutdown via 
.PN rrpc_$shutdown .
If a server calls 
.PN rpc_$allow_remote_shutdown
with 
.I allow
true
(not zero) and 
\fIcheckproc\fR
nil, then remote shutdown will be allowed.
If 
.I allow
is true and 
\fIcheckproc\fR
is not nil, then when a remote shutdown request arrives,
the function denoted by 
.I checkproc
is called and the shutdown is allowed if the function returns true.
If 
.I allow
is false (zero), remote shutdown is disallowed.
.SH Diagnostics
This section lists status codes for errors returned by this 
.PN rpc_$
routine in
.PN status.all .
.TP 20
\fBrpc_$not_in_call\fR
An internal error.
.TP 20
\fBrpc_$you_crashed\fR
This error can occur if a server has crashed and restarted.
A client RPC runtime library sends the error to the server
if the client makes a remote procedure call before the server crashes,
then receives a response after the server restarts.
.TP 20
\fBrpc_$proto_error\fR
An internal protocol error.
.SH Files
.PN /usr/include/idl/c/rpc.h
.br
.PN /usr/include/idl/rpc.idl
.SH See Also
intro(3ncs), rpc_shutdown(3ncs), rrpc_shutdown(3ncs)
