.TH rpc_clear_server_binding 3ncs
.SH Name
rpc_clear_server_binding \- unset the binding of an RPC handle to a
server (client only)
.SH Syntax
.nf
#include <idl/c/rpc.h>

void rpc_$clear_server_binding(\fIhandle, status\fP)
handle_t \fIhandle\fP;
status_$t *\fIstatus\fP;
.fi
.\".SH SYNOPSIS (PASCAL)
.\".DS
.\"\fB%include '/usr/include/idl/pas/rpc.ins.pas'\fR
.\"
.\"\fBprocedure rpc_$clear_server_binding(\fR
.\"	\fBin \fIhandle\fB: handle_t;\fR
.\"	\fBout \fIstatus\fB: status_$t);\fR
.\".DE
.SH Arguments
.TP 20 
\fIhandle\fR
The RPC handle whose binding is being cleared.
.TP 20
\fIstatus\fR
The completion status.
If the completion status returned in
.PN status\&.all
is equal to
.B status_$ok ,
then the routine that supplied it was successful.
.SH Description
The 
.PN rpc_$clear_server_binding
routine removes the association between an RPC
handle and a particular server (that is, a particular port number),
but does not remove the associations with an object and with a host
(that is, a network address).
This call replaces a fully bound handle with a bound-to-host handle.
A bound-to-host handle identifies an object located on a particular host
but does not identify a server exporting an interface to the object.
.NXR "Interface to the Remote Procedure Call" "rpc_clear_server_binding"
.PP
If a client uses a bound-to-host handle to make a remote procedure call,
the call is sent to the Local Location Broker (LLB) forwarding port
at the host identified by the handle.
If the call's interface and the object identified by the handle
are both registered with the host's LLB,
the LLB forwards the request to the registering server.
When the client RPC runtime library receives a response,
it binds the handle to the server.
Subsequent remote procedure calls that use this handle
are then sent directly to the bound server's port.
.PP
The 
.PN rpc_$clear_server_binding
routine is useful for client error recovery
when a server dies.
The port that a server uses when it restarts
is not necessarily the same port that it used previously;
therefore, the binding that the client was using may not be correct.
This routine enables the client to unbind from the dead server
while retaining the binding to the host.
When the client sends a request,
the binding is automatically set to the server's new port.
.SH Diagnostics
This section lists status codes for errors returned by this 
.PN rpc_$
routine in
.PN status\&.all .
.TP 20
\fBrpc_$not_in_call\fR
An internal error.
.TP 20
\fBrpc_$proto_error\fR
An internal protocol error.
.SH Files
.PN /usr/include/idl/rpc.idl
.br
.PN /usr/include/idl/c/rpc.h
.SH See Also
intro(3ncs), rpc_bind(3ncs), rpc_clear_binding(3ncs), rpc_set_binding(3ncs)
