.TH rpc_listen 3ncs
.SH Name
rpc_listen \- listen for and handle remote procedure call (RPC)
packets (server only)
.SH Syntax
.nf
#include <idl/c/rpc.h>

void rpc_$listen(\fImax_calls, status\fP)
unsigned long \fImax_calls\fP;
status_$t *\fIstatus\fP;
.fi
.\".SH SYNOPSIS (PASCAL)
.\".DS
.\"\fB%include '/usr/include/idl/pas/rpc.ins.pas'\fR
.\"
.\"\fBprocedure rpc_$listen(\fR
.\"	\fBin \fImax_calls\fB: unsigned32;\fR
.\"	\fBout \fIstatus\fB: status_$t);\fR
.\".DE
.SH Arguments
.TP 15
\fImax_calls\fR
This value indicates the maximum number of calls
that the server is allowed to process concurrently.
On ULTRIX systems, this value should be 1; any other value is ignored
and defaulted to one. 
.TP 15
\fIstatus\fR
The completion status.
If the completion status returned in
.PN status\&.all
is equal to
.B status_$ok ,
then the routine that supplied it was successful.
.SH Description
The 
.PN rpc_$listen
routine dispatches incoming remote procedure call requests to manager procedures
and returns the responses to the client.
.NXR "Remote Procedure Call" "rpc_listen"
You must issue 
.PN rpc_$use_family
or 
.PN rpc_$use_family_wk
before you use 
.PN rpc_$listen .
This routine normally does not return.  A return from this
routine indicates either an irrecoverable error, or that an
.PN rpc_shutdown
call has been issued.  If
.PN status\&.all
is equal to
.B status_$ok ,
the assumption is that
.PN rpc_$shutdown
has occurred.
.SH Examples
Listen for incoming remote procedure call requests.
.EX
rpc_$listen (1, &status);
.EE
.SH Diagnostics
This section lists status codes for errors returned by this
.PN rpc_$
routine in
.PN status\&.all .
.TP 20
\fBrpc_$not_in_call\fR
An internal error.
.TP 20
\fBrpc_$you_crashed\fR
This error can occur if a server has crashed and restarted.
A client RPC runtime library sends the error to the server
if the client makes a remote procedure call before the server crashes,
then receives a response after the server restarts.
.TP 20
\fBrpc_$proto_error\fR
An internal protocol error.
.TP 20
\fBrpc_$bad_pkt\fR
The server or client has received an ill-formed packet.
.SH Files
.PN /usr/include/idl/c/rpc.h
.br
.PN /usr/include/idl/rpc.idl
.br
.PN /usr/include/idl/c/rpc.h
.SH See Also
intro(3ncs), rpc_shutdown(3ncs)
