.TH rpc_set_binding 3ncs
.SH Name
rpc_set_binding \- bind an RPC handle to a server (client only)
.SH Syntax
#include <idl/c/rpc.h>

void rpc_$set_binding(\fIhandle, sockaddr, slength, status\fP)
.nf
handle_t \fIhandle\fP;
socket_$addr_t *\fIsockaddr\fP;
unsigned long \fIslength\fP;
status_$t *\fIstatus\fP;
.fi
.\".SH SYNOPSIS (PASCAL)
.\".DS
.\"\fB%include '/usr/include/idl/pas/rpc.ins.pas'\fR
.\"
.\"\fBprocedure rpc_$set_binding(\fR
.\"	\fBin \fIhandle\fB: handle_t;\fR
.\"	\fBin \fIsockaddr\fB: socket_$addr_t;\fR
.\"	\fBin \fIslength\fB: unsigned32;\fR
.\"	\fBout \fIstatus\fB: status_$t);\fR
.\".DE
.SH Arguments
.TP 20
\fIhandle\fR
An RPC handle.
.TP 20
\fIsockaddr\fR
The socket address of the server with which the handle is being associated.
.TP 20
\fIslength\fR
The length, in bytes, of \fIsockaddr\fR.
.TP 20
\fIstatus\fR
The completion status.
If the completion status returned in
.PN status\&.all
is equal to
.B status_$ok ,
then the routine that supplied it was successful.
.SH Description
The 
.PN rpc_$set_binding
routine sets the binding of an RPC handle to the specified server.
The handle then identifies a specific object at a specific server.
Any subsequent remote procedure calls that a client makes using the handle
are sent to this destination.
.NXR "Interface to the Remote Procedure Call" "rpc_set_binding"
.PP
You can use this routine
either to set the binding in an unbound handle
or to replace the existing binding in a fully bound or bound-to-host handle.
.SH Examples
The following statement sets the binding on the handle 
.PN h
to the first server in the 
.PN lbresults
array, which was returned by a previous Location Broker lookup routine,
.PN lb_lookup_interface :
.EX
rpc_$set_binding (h, &lbresults[0].saddr, lbresults[0].saddr_len,
                       &status);
.EE
.SH Diagnostics
This section lists status codes for errors returned by this 
.PN rpc_$
routine in
.PN status\&.all .
.TP 20
\fBrpc_$cant_bind_sock\fR
The RPC runtime library created a socket but was unable to bind it to a socket address.
.TP 20
\fBrpc_$not_in_call\fR
An internal error.
.TP 20
\fBrpc_$proto_error\fR
An internal protocol error.
.SH Files
.PN /usr/include/idl/c/rpc.h
.br
.PN /usr/include/idl/rpc.idl
.SH See Also
intro(3ncs), rpc_alloc_handle(3ncs), rpc_clear_binding(3ncs), rpc_clear_server_binding(3ncs)
