.TH rrpc_shutdown 3ncs
.SH Name
rrpc_shutdown \- shut down a server
.SH Syntax
#include <idl/c/rrpc.h>

void rrpc_$shutdown(\fIhandle, status\fP)
.nf
handle_t \fIhandle\fP;
status_$t *\fIstatus\fP;
.fi
.\".SH SYNOPSIS (PASCAL)
.\".DS
.\"\fB%include '/usr/include/idl/pas/rrpc.ins.pas'\fR
.\"
.\"\fBprocedure rrpc_$shutdown(\fR
.\"	\fBin \fIhandle\fB: handle_t;\fR
.\"	\fBout \fIstatus\fB: status_$t);\fR
.\".DE
.SH Arguments
.TP
\fIhandle\fR
A remote procedure call (RPC) handle.
.TP
\fIstatus\fR
The completion status.  
If the completion status returned in
.PN status\&.all
is equal to
.B status_$ok ,
then the routine that supplied it was successful.
.SH Description
The 
.PN rrpc_$shutdown
routine shuts down a server, if the server allows it.
A server can use the 
.PN rpc_$allow_remote_shutdown
routine to allow or disallow remote shutdown.
.NXR "Remote Remote Procedure Call Interface" "rrpc_shutdown"   
.SH Diagnostics
This section lists status codes for errors returned by this 
.PN rrpc_$
routine in
.PN status\&.all .
.TP
.B rrpc_$shutdown_not_allowd
You send an
.PN rrpc_shutdown
request to a server that has not issued an
.PN rpc_allow_remote_shutdown
call.
.SH Restrictions
On the client side, because of the way the
.PN rrpc_
calls are defined and implemented
in the run-time library
.PN libnck.a ,
you must explicitly call
into the entry point vector table for the
.PN rrpc_
interface to
send an
.PN rrpc_
request across the network. The
following is an example of a call that works
as desired:
.EX
(*rrpc_$client_epv.rrpc_$shutdown)(handle, &status);
.EE
.PP
The server side stub routine calls the entry point
.PN rrpc_$shutdown
on behalf of the client.  The results of the call are then
passed back to the client.
.PP
Before making the shutdown call, the server must have
previously
executed the following call:
.EX
rpc_$allow_remote_shutdown((unsigned long) TRUE,NULL,&status);
.EE
.PP
If the server has not allowed remote shutdown, the
.PN rrpc_$shutdown
call returns an
.PN operation\0not\0implemented
status code.
.SH Files
.PN /usr/include/idl/c/rrpc.h
.br
.PN /usr/include/idl/rrpc.idl
.SH See Also
intro(3ncs), rpc_allow_remote_shutdown(3ncs), rpc_shutdown(3ncs)
