.\" SCCSID: @(#)sin.3m	6.2	8/30/89
.TH sin 3m VAX
.SH Name
sin, cos, tan, asin, acos, atan, atan2 \- trigonometric functions
.SH Syntax
.nf
.B #include <math.h>
.PP
.B double sin(\fIx\fP)
.B double \fIx\fP;
.PP
.B double cos(\fIx\fP)
.B double \fIx\fP;
.PP
.B double tan(\fIx\fP)
.B double \fIx\fP;
.PP
.B double asin(\fIx\fP)
.B double \fIx\fP;
.PP
.B double acos(\fIx\fP)
.B double \fIx\fP;
.PP
.B double atan(\fIx\fP)
.B double \fIx\fP;
.PP
.B double atan2(\fIx,y\fP)
.B double \fIx,y\fP;
.fi
.SH Description
.NXR "sin subroutine (math)"
.NXR "cos subroutine (math)"
.NXR "tan subroutine (math)"
.NXR "asin subroutine (math)"
.NXR "acos subroutine (math)"
.NXR "atan subroutine (math)"
.NXR "atan2 subroutine (math)"
.NXR "sine function"
.NXR "cosine function"
.NXR "arccosine function"
.NXR "arcsine function"
.NXR "arctangent function"
The subroutines
.PN sin ,
.PN cos
and
.PN tan ,
return trigonometric functions of radian arguments.
The magnitude of the argument should be checked
by the caller to make sure the result is meaningful.
.PP
The 
.PN asin
subroutine returns the arc sin in the range \-\(*p/2 to \(*p/2.
.PP
The 
.PN acos
subroutine returns the arc cosine in the range 0 to \(*p.
.PP
The 
.PN atan
subroutine returns the arc tangent of
.I x
in the range \-\(*p/2 to \(*p/2.
.PP
The 
.PN atan2
subroutine returns the arc tangent of
.I x/y
in the range \-\(*p to \(*p.
.SH Restrictions
.NXR "sin subroutine (math)" "restrictions"
The value of
.PN tan
for arguments greater than about 2**31 is unreliable.
.SH Return Values
.NXR "sin subroutine (math)" "return value"
Arguments of magnitude greater than 1 cause
.PN asin
and
.PN acos
to return zero and set
.I errno
to EDOM.
.PP
The
.PN atan2
function returns zero and sets
.I errno
to EDOM
when
.I x
and
.I y
are both zero.
.SH Environment
.NXR "sin subroutine (math)" "System V and"
When your program is compiled using the System V environment,
.PN sin ,
.PN cos
and
.PN tan
lose accuracy when their argument is far from zero.
For arguments sufficiently large, these functions return 0
when there would otherwise be a complete loss of significance.
In this case a message indicating TLOSS error is printed
on the standard error output.  For less extreme arguments, a
PLOSS error is generated but no message is printed.  In 
both cases, \fIerrno\fP is set to ERANGE.
.PP
The
.PN tan
subroutine returns HUGE for
an argument which is near an odd multiple of 
\(*p/2 when the correct value would overflow, and sets 
.I errno
to ERANGE.
.PP
Arguments of magnitude greater than 1.0 cause
.PN asin
and 
.PN acos 
to return 0 and to set 
.I errno
to EDOM.  In addition, a message indicating DOMAIN
error is printed on the standard error output.
.PP
These error-handling procedures may be changed with the function
.MS matherr 3m .
