.TH socket_from_name 3ncs
.SH Name
socket_from_name \- convert a name and port number to a socket address
.SH Syntax
#include <idl/c/socket.h>

void socket_$from_name(\fIfamily, name, nlength, port, sockaddr, slength,\fP
\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\fIstatus\fP)
.nf
unsigned long \fIfamily\fP;
socket_$string_t \fIname\fP;
unsigned long \fInlength\fP;
unsigned long \fIport\fP;
socket_$addr_t *\fIsockaddr\fP;
unsigned long *\fIslength\fP;
status_$t *\fIstatus\fP;
.fi
.\".SH SYNOPSIS (PASCAL)
.\".DS
.\"\fB%include '/usr/include/idl/pas/socket.ins.pas'\fR
.\"
.\"\fBprocedure socket_$from_name(\fR
.\"	\fBin \fIfamily\fB: unsigned32;\fR
.\"	\fBin \fIname\fB: socket_$string_t;\fR
.\"	\fBin \fInlength\fB: unsigned32;\fR
.\"	\fBin \fIport\fB: unsigned32;\fR
.\"	\fBout \fIsockaddr\fB: socket_$addr_t;\fR
.\"	\fBin out \fIslength\fB: unsigned32;\fR
.\"	\fBout \fIstatus\fB: status_$t);\fR
.\".DE
.SH Arguments
.TP
\fIfamily\fR
The integer representation of an address family.  Value can be
.B socket_$internet 
or
.B socket_$unspec
If the \fIfamily\fR parameter is \fBsocket_$unspec\fR,
then the \fIname\fR parameter is scanned for a prefix of \fIfamily\fB:\fR
(for example, \fBip:\fR).
.TP
\fIname\fR
A string in the format \fIfamily\fB:\fIhost\fB\|[\|\fIport\fB\|]\|\fR,
where \fIfamily\fB:\fR, \fIhost\fR, and \fB\|[\|\fIport\fB\|]\|\fR are all optional.
.if t .sp .5
The \fIfamily\fR is an address family.
The only valid
.I family
is \fBip\fR.
If you specify a \fIfamily\fR as part of the \fIname\fR parameter,
you must specify \fBsocket_$unspec\fR in the \fIfamily\fR parameter.
.if t .sp .5
The \fIhost\fR is a host name.
A leading number sign \fB(#)\fR can be used to indicate that
the host name is in the standard numeric form
(for example, #192.9.8.7).
If \fIhost\fR is omitted, the local host name is used.
.if t .sp .5
The \fIport\fR is a port number.
If you specify a \fIport\fR as part of the \fIname\fR parameter,
the \fIport\fR parameter is ignored.
.TP
\fInlength\fR
The length, in bytes, of \fIname\fR.
.TP
\fIport\fR
A port number.
If you specify a port number in the \fIname\fR parameter,
this parameter is ignored.
.TP
\fIsockaddr\fR
A socket address.
.TP
\fIslength\fR
The length, in bytes, of \fIsockaddr\fR.
.TP
\fIstatus\fR
The completion status. If the completion status returned in
.PN status\&.all
is equal to
.B status_$ok ,
then the routine that supplied it was successful.
.SH Description
The 
.PN socket_$from_name
routine converts a textual address family, host name, and port number 
to a socket address.
.NXR "Operations on Socket Addresses" "socket_from_name"
The address family and the port number can be
either specified as separate parameters or
included in the \fIname\fR parameter.
.ig
.SH External Variables
This section describes external variables used in \fBsocket_$\fR routines.
.TP 20
..
.SH Files
.PN /usr/include/idl/socket.idl
.br
.PN /usr/include/idl/c/socket.h
.SH See Also
intro(3ncs), socket_family_from_name(3ncs), socket_to_name(3ncs)
