.TH socket_family_to_name 3ncs
.SH Name
socket_family_to_name \- convert an integer address family to a textual name
.SH Syntax
#include <idl/c/socket.h>

void socket_$family_to_name(\fIfamily, name, nlength, status\fP)
.nf
unsigned long \fIfamily\fP;
socket_$string_t \fIname\fP;
unsigned long *\fInlength\fP;
status_$t *\fIstatus\fP;
.fi
.\".SH SYNOPSIS (PASCAL)
.\".DS
.\"\fB%include '/usr/include/idl/pas/socket.ins.pas'\fR
.\"
.\"\fBprocedure socket_$family_to_name(\fR
.\"	\fBin \fIfamily\fB: unsigned32;\fR
.\"	\fBout \fIname\fB: socket_$string_t;\fR
.\"	\fBin out \fInlength\fB: unsigned32;\fR
.\"	\fBout \fIstatus\fB: status_$t);\fR
.\".DE
.SH Arguments
.TP 20
\fIfamily\fR
The integer representation of an address family.
.TP 20
\fIname\fR
The textual name of \fIfamily\fR.  Currently, only \fBip\fR is
supported.
.TP 20
\fInlength\fR
On input, the maximum length, in bytes, of the name to be returned.
On output, the actual length of the returned name.
.TP 20
\fIstatus\fR
The completion status. If the completion status returned in
.PN status\&.all
is equal to
.B status_$ok ,
then the routine that supplied it was successful.
.SH Description
The 
.PN socket_$family_to_name
routine converts the integer representation of an address family to
a textual name for the family.
.NXR "Operations on Socket Addresses" "socket_family_to_name"
.ig
.SH External Variables
This section describes external variables used in \fBsocket_$\fR routines.
.TP 20
..
.SH Files
.PN /usr/include/idl/socket.idl
.br
.PN /usr/include/idl/c/socket.h
.SH See Also
intro(3ncs)
