.TH socket_equal 3ncs
.SH Name
socket_equal \- compare two socket addresses
.SH Syntax
#include <idl/c/socket.h>

boolean socket_$equal(\fIsockaddr1, s1length, sockaddr2, s2length, flags,\fP
\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\fIstatus\fP)
.nf
socket_$addr_t *\fIsockaddr1\fP;
unsigned long \fIs1length\fP;
socket_$addr_t *\fIsockaddr2\fP;
unsigned long \fIs2length\fP;
unsigned long \fIflags\fP;
status_$t *\fIstatus\fP;
.fi
.\".SH SYNOPSIS (PASCAL)
.\".DS
.\"\fB%include '/usr/include/idl/pas/socket.ins.pas'\fR
.\"
.\"\fBfunction socket_$equal(\fR
.\"	\fBin \fIsockaddr1\fB: socket_$addr_t;\fR
.\"	\fBin \fIs1length\fB: unsigned32;\fR
.\"	\fBin \fIsockaddr2\fB: socket_$addr_t;\fR
.\"	\fBin \fIs2length\fB: unsigned32;\fR
.\"	\fBin \fIflags\fB: unsigned32;\fR
.\"	\fBout \fIstatus\fB: status_$t): boolean;\fR
.\".DE
.SH Arguments
.TP 20
\fIsockaddr1\fR
A socket address.  The socket address is the structure returned by either
.PN rpc_use_family
or 
.PN rpc_use_family_wk .
.TP 20
\fIs1length\fR
The length, in bytes, of \fIsockaddr1\fR.
.TP 20
\fIsockaddr2\fR
A socket address.  The socket address is the structure returned by either
.PN rpc_use_family
or 
.PN rpc_use_family_wk .
.TP 20
\fIs2length\fR
The length, in bytes, of \fIsockaddr2\fR.
.TP 20
\fIflags\fR
The logical OR of values selected from the following:
.RS
.TP 20
\fBsocket_$eq_hostid\fR
Indicates that the host IDs are to be compared.
.TP 20
\fBsocket_$eq_netaddr\fR
Indicates that the network addresses are to be compared.
.TP 20
\fBsocket_$eq_port\fR
Indicates that the port numbers are to be compared.
.TP 20
\fBsocket_$eq_network\fR
Indicates that the network IDs are to be compared.
.RE
.TP 20
\fIstatus\fR
The completion status. If the completion status returned in
.PN status\&.all
is equal to
.B status_$ok ,
then the routine that supplied it was successful.
.SH Description
The 
.PN socket_$equal
routine compares two socket addresses.
The \fIflags\fR parameter determines which fields of the socket 
addresses are compared.
The call returns `true' (not zero) if all of the fields compared are
equal, `false' (zero) if not.
.NXR "Operations on Socket Addresses" "socket_equal"
.ig
.SH External Variables
This section describes external variables used in \fBsocket_$\fR routines.
.TP 20
..
.SH Examples
The following routine compares the network and host IDs in the
socket addresses
.I sockaddr1
and
.I sockaddr2:
.EX
if (socket_$equal (&sockaddr1, s1length, &sockaddr2, s2length,
        socket_$eq_network | socket_$eq_hostid, &status))
printf ("sockaddrs have equal network and host IDs\en");
.EE
.ig
.SH Status Codes
This section lists status codes for errors returned by \fBsocket_$\fR routines.
..
.SH Files
.PN /usr/include/idl/c/socket.h
.br
.PN /usr/include/idl/socket.idl
.SH See Also
intro(3ncs)
