.\" SCCSID: @(#)string.3	8.3	3/5/91
.TH string 3
.SH Name
strcasecmp, strncasecmp, strcat, strncat, strcmp, strncmp, 
strcpy, strncpy, strlen, 
strchr, strrchr, strpbrk, strspn, strcspn, strstr, strtok, index, 
rindex \- string operations
.SH Syntax
.nf
.B #include <strings.h>
.RS
.PP
or
.RE
.PP
.B #include <string.h>
.PP
.B strcasecmp(\fIs1, s2\fP)
.B char *\fIs1, *s2\fP;
.PP  
.B strncasecmp(\fIs1, s2, n\fP)
.B char *\fIs1, *s2\fP;
.PP
.B char *strcat(\fIs1, s2\fP)
.B char *\fIs1, *s2\fP;
.PP
.B char *strncat(\fIs1, s2, n\fP)
.B char *\fIs1, *s2\fP;
.PP
.B int strcmp(\fIs1, s2\fP)
.B unsigned char *\fIs1, *s2\fP;
.PP
.B int strncmp(\fIs1, s2, n\fP)
.B unsigned char *\fIs1, *s2\fP;
.B int \fIn\fP
.PP
.B char *strcpy(\fIs1, s2\fP)
.B char *\fIs1, *s2\fP;
.PP
.B char *strncpy(\fIs1, s2, n\fP)
.B char *\fIs1, *s2\fP;
.B int \fIn\fP
.PP
.B size_t strlen(\fIs\fP)
.B char *\fIs\fP;
.PP
.B char *strchr(\fIs, c\fP)
.B char *\fIs\fP;
.B int \fIc\fP;
.PP
.B char *strrchr(\fIs, c\fP)
.B char *\fIs\fP;
.B int \fIc\fP;
.PP
.B char *strpbrk(\fIs1, s2\fP)
.B char *\fIs1, *s2\fP;
.PP
.B size_t strspn(\fIs1, s2\fP)
.B char *\fIs1, *s2\fP;
.PP
.B  size_t strcspn(\fIs1, s2\fP)
.B char *\fIs1, *s2\fP;
.PP
.B char *strtok(\fIs1, s2\fP)
.B char *\fIs1, *s2\fP;
.PP
.B char *index(\fIs, c\fP)
.B char *\fIs, c\fP;
.PP
.B char *rindex(\fIs, c\fP)
.B char *\fIs, c\fP;
.PP
.B char *strstr(\fIs1, s2\fP)
.B char *\fIs1, *s2\fP;
.fi
.SH Description
The arguments \fIs1\fR, \fIs2\fR, and \fIs\fR point to strings
(arrays of characters terminated by a null character).  The
functions 
.PN strcat ,
.PN strncat ,
.PN strcpy ,
and
.PN strncpy
subroutines
all alter \fIs1\fR.  
These functions do not check for overflow of the array
pointed to by \fIs1\fR.
.PP
The
.PN strcat
subroutine appends a copy of string
.I s2
to the end of string
.IR s1 .
The
.PN strncat
subroutine copies at most
.I n
characters.  Both return a pointer to the null-terminated result.
.PP
The
.PN strcmp
subroutine compares its arguments and returns an integer
greater than, equal to, or less than 0, according as
.I s1
is lexicographically greater than, equal to, or less than
.IR s2 .
The
.PN strncmp
subroutine makes the same comparison but looks at at most
.I n
characters. The
.PN strcasecmp 
and 
.PN strncasecmp 
subroutines are identical in
function, but are case insensitive.  The returned 
lexicographic difference reflects a conversion to lower-case.
.PP
The
.PN strcpy
subroutine copies string
.I s2
to
.I s1,
stopping after the null character has been copied.
The
.PN strncpy
subroutine copies exactly
.I n
characters, truncating \fIs2\fR or adding null characters
to \fIs1\fR if necessary.  The result will not be null-terminated
if the length of \fIs2\fR is \fIn\fR or more.  Each function
returns \fIs1\fR.
.PP
The
.PN strlen
subroutine
returns the number of characters in
.IR s ,
not including the terminating null character.
.PP
The
.PN strstr
subroutine
returns a pointer to the first occurrence of 
.I s2 
(excluding the terminating
null character) in 
.I s1, 
or a NULL pointer if 
.I s2 
does not occur in 
.I s1. 
If the length of
.I s2
is zero,
.PN strstr
returns 
.I s1.
.PP
The
.PN strchr
(
.PN strrchr
) function returns a pointer to the first (last) occurrence of character
\fIc\fR in string \fIs\fR, or a NULL pointer is \fIc\fR does not
occur in the string.  The null character terminating a string is
considered to be part of the string.
.PP
.I
The
.PN strpbrk
subroutine
returns a pointer to the first occurrence in string \fIs1\fR
of any character from string \fIs2\fR,
or a NULL pointer if no character from
\fIs2\fR exists in \fIs1\fR.
.PP
.I
The
.PN strspn
(
.PN strcspn
)
subroutine
returns the length of the initial segment of string \fIs1\fR
which consists entirely of characters from (not from) string
\fIs2\fR.
.PP
The
.PN strtok
subroutine
considers the string \fIs1\fR to consist of a sequence of zero
or more text tokens separated by spans of one or more characters
from the separator string \fIs2\fR.  The first call (with
pointer \fIs1\fR specified) returns a pointer to the first character
of the first token, and will have written a null character into
\fIs1\fR immediately following the returned token.  The function
keeps track of its position in the string between separate calls,
so that subsequent calls (which must be made with the first argument a
NULL pointer) will work
through the string \fIs1\fR immediately following
that token.  In this way, subsequent calls will work through the
string \fIs1\fR until no tokens remain.  The separator string
\fIs2\fR may be different from call to call.  When no token remains
in \fIs1\fR, a NULL pointer is returned.
.PP
The
.PN index
( 
.PN rindex
)
subroutine
returns a pointer to the first (last) occurrence of character 
.I c
in string
.I s,
or zero if
.I c
does not occur in  the string.
.NT
The <string.h> header file is provided for compatibility
with System V; both <string.h> and <strings.h> refer to
the same file.
.br
The
.PN strcmp
and
.PN strncmp
subroutines
do unsigned character comparisons.
.NE
