.TH t_close 3xti
.SH Name
t_close \- close a transport endpoint 
.SH Syntax
.B #include <xti.h>
.br
.sp 1
.B int t_close \fIfd\fB)
.br
.B int \fIfd\fB;
.SH Arguments
.IP \fIfd\fR 10
Identifies the local transport endpoint.
.SH Description
.NXR "t_close system call"
.NXA "t_close system call" "t_open system call"
The 
.PN t_close() 
function informs the transport provider that the user
is finished with the transport endpoint specified by \fIfd\fR and frees
any local library resources associated with the endpoint. In addition,
.PN t_close()  
closes the file associated with the transport endpoint.
.NXR "transport endpoint" "closing"
.PP
The 
.PN t_close() 
function should be called from the T_UNBND state. However, this function does not check state
information, so it can be called from any state to close a transport
endpoint. If this occurs, the local library resources associated with
the endpoint are freed automatically. In addition, 
.PN close()
is issued for that file descriptor; the 
.PN t_close()
abortives if there are no other descriptors in this or in another
process that references the transport endpoint and 
breaks the transport connection that may be associated with that
endpoint.
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB lfHB
lfR  lfR  lfR .
_
.sp 4p
Parameters@Before Call@After Call
.sp 4p
_
.sp 6p
fd@x@/
.sp 6p
_
.TE
.PP
.sp 12p
.SH Return Values
The 
.PN t_close
returns 0 on success and \-1 on failure, and
\fBt_errno\fR is set to indicate the error.
.SH Diagnostics
On failure, \fBt_errno\fR is set to the following:
.TP 20
The specified file descriptor does not refer to a transport endpoint.
.SH See Also
t_getstate(3xti), 
t_open(3xti),
t_unbind(3xti)  
