.TH t_free 3xti
.SH Name
t_free \- free a library structure 
.SH Syntax
.B #include <xti.h>
.br
.sp 1
.B int t_free(\fIptr, struct_type\fB)
.br
.B char \fI*ptr\fB;
.br
.B int \fIstruct_type\fB;
.SH Arguments
.IP \fIptr\fR 10
Points to one of the seven structure types described for
.PN t_alloc().
.IP \fIstruct_type\fR 10
Identifies the type of that structure, which must be one of the
following:
.IP 
.EX
T_BIND_STR		\fIstruct\fP	\fBt_bind\fP;
T_CALL_STR		\fIstruct\fP	\fBt_call\fP
T_OPTMGMT_STR		\fIstruct\fP	\fBt_optmgmt\fP
T_DIS_STR       	\fIstruct\fP	\fBt_discon\fP
T_UNITDATA_STR	\fIstruct\fP	\fBt_unitdata\fP
T_UDERROR_STR		\fIstruct\fP	\fBt_uderr\fP
T_INFO_STR		\fIstruct\fP	\fBt_info\fP
.EE
.IP
Each of these structures is used as an argument to one or more
transport functions.
.SH Description
The 
.PN t_free()
function frees memory previously allocated by
.PN t_alloc()\fR.\fR
This function frees memory for the specified
structure and also frees memory for buffers referenced by the
structure.
.NXR "t_free system call"
.NXR "memory" "freeing"
.NXA "t_free system call" "t_alloc system call"
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB lfHB
lfR  lfR  lfR .
_
.sp 4p
Parameters@Before Call@After Call
.sp 4p
_
.sp 6p
ptr@x@/
struct_type@x@/
.sp 6p
_
.TE
.PP
.sp 12p
The 
.PN t_free()
function checks the \fIaddr\fR, \fIopt\fR, and
\fIudata\fR fields of the given structure (as appropriate) and free the
buffers pointed to by the \fIbuf\fR field of the \fBnetbuf\fR structure.
If \fIbuf\fR is NULL, 
.PN t_free()
does not attempt to free memory.
After all buffers are freed, 
.PN t_free()
frees the memory associated with the structure pointed to by \fIptr\fR.
.PP
Results are undefined if \fIptr\fR or any of the \fIbuf\fR
pointers points to a block of memory not previously allocated
by 
.PN t_alloc()\fR.\fR
.SH Return Values
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned. On failure,  a
value of \-1 is returned, and \fBt_errno\fR is set to indicate the
error.
.SH Diagnostics
On failure, \fBt_errno\fR is set to one of the following:
.TP 20
[TNOTSUPPORT]
This function is not supported by the current implementation of XTI. 
.TP 20
[TSYSERR]
A system error has occurred during execution of this function.
.SH See Also
t_alloc(3xti)
