.TH rogue 6 "" "" Unsupported
.SH Name
rogue \- Exploring The Dungeons of Doom
.SH Syntax
.B /usr/games/rogue
[
.B \-r
]
[
.I save_file
]
[
.B \-s
]
[
.B \-d
]
.SH Description
.NXR "rogue game"
.NXS "Dungeons of Doom" "rogue game"
.NXS "dungeon game" "rogue game"
The
.PN rogue
program is a computer fantasy game with a new twist.  It is crt oriented and the
object of the game is to survive the attacks of various monsters and get
a lot of gold, rather than the puzzle solving orientation of most computer
fantasy games.
.PP
To get started you really only need to know two commands.  The command
.B ?
will give you a list of the available commands and the command
.B /
will identify the things you see on the screen.
.PP
To win the game (as opposed to merely playing to beat other people high
scores) you must locate the Amulet of Yendor which is somewhere below
the 20th level of the dungeon and get it out.  Nobody has achieved this
yet and if somebody does, they will probably go down in history as a hero
among heros.
.PP
When the game ends, either by your death, when you quit, or if you (by
some miracle) manage to win,
.I rogue
will give you alist of the top-ten scorers.  The scoring is based entirely
upon how much gold you get.  There is a 10% penalty for getting yourself
killed.
.PP
If
.I save_file
is specified,
rogue will be restored from the specified saved game file.
.PP
For more detailed directions, read the document
.I "A Guide to the Dungeons of Doom."
.SH Options
.TP
.B \-r
The save game file is presumed to be the default.
.TP
.B \-s
Print out the list of scores.
.TP
.B \-d
The
.PN rogue 
program will kill you and try to add you to the score file.
.SH Files
.DT
.ta \w'/usr/games/lib/rogue_roll\ \ \ 'u
/usr/games/lib/rogue_roll	Score file
.br
\fB~\fP/rogue.save	Default save file
