.TH trek 6 "" "" Unsupported
.SH Name
trek \- trekkie game
.SH Syntax
.B /usr/games/trek
[ [
.B \-a
] 
.I file 
]
.SH Description
.NXR "trek game"
The
.PN trek
program is a game of space glory and war.  
Below is a summary of commands.
For a complete description, see
.I Trek
documentation.
.PP
If a filename is given, a log of the game is written onto that \fIfile\fP.
If the
.B \-a
option is given before the filename, that file is appended to, not truncated.
.PP
The game will ask you what length game you would like.
Valid responses are \*(lqshort\*(rq, \*(lqmedium\*(rq, and \*(lqlong\*(rq.
You may also type \*(lqrestart\*(rq, which restarts a previously saved game.
You will then be prompted for the skill, to which you must respond
\*(lqnovice\*(rq, \*(lqfair\*(rq, \*(lqgood\*(rq, \*(lqexpert\*(rq,
\*(lqcommadore\*(rq, or \*(lqimpossible\*(rq.
You should normally start out with a novice and work up.
.PP
In general, throughout the game, if you forget what is appropriate
the game will tell you what it expects if you just type in a question mark.
.SS Command Summary
.NXR "trek game" "command list"
.ie t .ds f \fB
.el .ds f \fI
.ta 3i
.nf
\*fabandon\fR	\*fca\fRpture
\*fcl\fRoak \*fu\fRp/\*fd\fRown
\*fc\fRomputer request; ...	\*fda\fRmages
\*fdestruct\fR	\*fdo\fRck
\*fhelp\fR	\*fi\fRmpulse course distance
\*fl\fRrscan	\*fm\fRove course distance
\*fp\fRhasers \*fa\fRutomatic amount
\*fp\fRhasers \*fm\fRanual amt1 course1 spread1 ...
\*ft\fRorpedo course [\*fy\fRes] angle/\*fn\fRo
\*fram\fR course distance	\*fr\fRest time
\*fshell\fR	\*fsh\fRields \*fu\fRp/\*fd\fRown
\*fs\fRrscan [\*fy\fRes/\*fn\fRo]
\*fst\fRatus	\*fterminate\fR \*fy\fRes/\*fn\fRo
\*fu\fRndock	\*fv\fRisual course
\*fw\fRarp warp_factor
.fi
.DT
.SH See Also
.PN /usr/doc/trek
