.\" SCCSID: @(#)addnode.8	8.1	9/11/90
.TH addnode 8 
.SH Name
addnode \- add or change an entry in the nodes database 
.SH Syntax 
.B /etc/addnode 
.I node
[
.I options
]
.SH Description
.NXR "addnode command"
.NXA "addnode command" "getnode command"
.NXA "addnode command" "remnode command"
.NXR "node" "changing data base entry"
The
.PN addnode 
command
adds a new node entry to the nodes database or modifies an existing 
entry.  The nodes database is the one used by DECnet.  
The
.PN addnode 
command defines the information that is necessary for your ULTRIX node 
to be capable of down-line loading and up-line 
dumping a particular target node.
The node address is the address of the target node.  
If the target node is a DECnet node, then 
the node address is mandatory and the node name is optional.
However, if the 
target node is a non-DECnet node,
for example, a terminal server, you should 
specify only the node name and omit the node address.
.PP
If you do not specify an absolute pathname for secondary load, 
tertiary load, system load, diagnostic load, or dump file, the default 
path, 
.PN /usr/lib/mop ,
is used during the load or dump process.
.PP
A node address is a 
decimal integer in the range of 1 to 1023 for single area networks, or 
has the format 
.I a.n 
for multiarea networks, where 
.I a
is the network area number (a decimal integer in the range of 1 to 63) 
and 
.I n
is the node number (a decimal integer in the range of 1 to 
1023).
.PP 
The node name is the node name of the target node.
.PP
If the target node is a DECnet node,
the node name is optional.  However, if 
the target node is 
a non-DECnet node, for example, a terminal server, the node name is 
mandatory (and the node address should be ignored).
.PP
A node name can be from 1 to 6 
alphanumeric characters, including at least 1 alphabetic character.
.SH Options
.NXR "addnode command" "options"
.TP 5
.B \-A
Uses the specified host address 
(next argument) as that of the target node.
.TP 5
.B \-D
Creates an up-line memory dump of the target node in the specified
file (next argument).
.TP 5
.B \-N
Uses the specified name (next argument) as that of the target node.
.TP 5
.B \-c
Uses the specified service and device number (UBA-n or QNA-n)
as the circuit to the target node.
.TP 5
.B \-d
Sends the specified diagnostic load image (next argument)
to the target node.
.TP 5
.B \-h
Uses the specified address (next argument) as the Ethernet
address of the target node.
.TP 5
.B \-l
Sends the specified system load image (next argument) to the target node.
.TP 5
.B \-p
Uses the specified service and password (next arguments) 
in accessing the target node.
.TP 5 
.B \-s
Sends the specified secondary load file (next argument) to the target node.
.TP 5
.B \-t
Sends the specified tertiary load file (next argument) to the target node.
.SH Examples
.NXR(e) "node" "changing data base entry"
.EX
% /etc/addnode mynode \-h aa\-00\-03\-00\-01\-19 \\ <RET>
.br
-s /usr/download/secondary \\ <RET>
.br
-t /usr/download/tertiary \\ <RET>
.br
-l system <RET>
.EE
.PP
This command adds the non-DECnet, node mynode,
to the nodes database, which has 
the Ethernet physical address aa-00-03-00-01-19. 
This command also specifies the file names for the secondary loader, 
the tertiary loader, and the system loader. 
Note that a path name is not specified for the system loader;
consequently, the 
loader uses the default path 
.PN /usr/lib/mop 
when searching for that file.
.EX
# /etc/addnode 44.71 \-h aa\-00\-03\-00\-01\-20 <RET>
.EE
.PP
This command adds the DECnet node 44.71 to the nodes database,
which has the 
Ethernet physical address aa-00-03-00-01-20. 
.SH See Also
ccr(8), getnode(8), load(8), mop_mom(8), remnode(8), trigger(8) 
