.TH auditmask 8
.SH Name
auditmask \- get or set auditmasks
.SH Syntax
.B auditmask [ \fIoption ... \fP ]
[ \fIevent\fP[:\fIsucceed\fP:\fIfail\fP]
.SH Description
.NXR "auditmask command"
The
.PN auditmask
command with no arguments displays the system-calls and trusted-events
currently being audited for the system, and displays whether
they are being audited under successful or failed occurrences or both. 
The format used for the display is acceptable as input to the
.PN auditmask
command. 
.PP
The
.PN auditmask
command with \fIevent\fP arguments sets the system-call and trusted-event
audit masks for the system.  This is cumulative operation, so it is
possible to turn on or off audit for one set of events, then turn on or
off audit for a second set of events without changing the first set of
events (except for intersection between the two sets).  Command line
arguments to
.PN auditmask
can include one or more events, each with an optional field
:\fIsucceed\fP:\fIfail\fP, where \fIsucceed\fP is
either 0 to specify no auditing of successful
occurrences of \fIevent\fP, or 1 (or any non-zero character)
to specify auditing of successful
occurrences of \fIevent\fP; and \fIfail\fP is either 0 to specify 
no auditing of failed occurrences of \fIevent\fP or 1 (or any non-zero
character) to specify auditing of failed occurrences of \fIevent\fP. 
The event name is the system-call name or
the trusted-event name (see \fIaudit.h\fP ).
.PP
The 
.PN auditmask
command will also accept redirected input, 
which can be the output of a previously issued
.PN auditmask
command.  This is a file which contains lines of the format 
\fIevent [succeed][fail]\fP.
If the keyword
.I succeed 
is present, successful occurrences of 
that event will be audited; if the keyword
.I fail 
is present, failed occurrences of that event will be audited; if both are
present, successful and failed occurrences will be audited; if neither
keyword is present, that event will not be audited. 
.PP
The \fIauditmask\fP command can also be used to set the audit style 
characteristics of the audit subsystem.  These characteristics control how 
much information is recorded on \fIexec\fP operations.
.PP
The
.PN auditmask 
command is used in 
.PN /etc/rc.local 
to initialize the auditmask at boot time according to the file 
.PN /etc/sec/audit_events .  
This makes use of privileged operations within the 
.MS audcntl 2 
system call.
.SH Options
.IP \-f  12
Turns on full auditing for the system.  This list may include events which
have no symbolic name and are represented only by a number (reserved for
future use); these events will not be audited, despite their presence in
the auditmask. 
.IP \-n
Turns off all auditing for the system. 
.IP "\fB-s \fIaud_style\fR" 12
An \fIaud_style\fP of "\fIexec_argp\fP" enables the auditing of the argument 
list to an 
.PN execv 
or 
.PN execve 
syscall.
An \fIaud_style\fP of "\fIexec_envp\fP" enables the auditing of the 
environment strings to an 
.PN execv 
or 
.PN execve 
syscall.
.SH See Also
audcntl(2)
