.\" SCCSID: @(#)audit_tool.8	4.0	5/54/13/89
.TH audit_tool 8
.SH Name
audit_tool \- ULTRIX auditlog reduction tool
.SH Syntax
.B /usr/etc/sec/audit_tool [ \fIoption ...\fP ] \fIauditlog_filename\fP
.SH Description
.NXR "audit_tool command"
.NXR "auditlog reduction tool"
The 
.PN audit_tool
presents a human-understandable format of selected portions of the
collected audit data.  If no arguments are provided, a brief help 
message will be displayed.  The 
auditlog file 
may be compressed or uncompressed.  
The 
.PN audit_tool
command will uncompress the 
auditlog file 
if necessary, and 
re-compress it if it was originally compressed.
.PP
Options are used to select specific audit records of interest.   For a
record to be selected, it must match at least one option of each option
type specified.  For example, if two usernames and one hostname were
specified, an audit record to be selected would have to match one of the
usernames and the hostname.  Only one start/end time may be selected. 
Only one deselection rulesfile may be selected.  It is possible to select
as many events as exists on the system.  For all other option types, up to
8 instances may be selected. 
.SH Options
.NXR "audit_tool command" "options"
.IP "\fB-a \fIaudit_id\fR" 12
Selects audit records with a matching 
.I audit_id.
The default is to select for all 
.IR audit_id 's.  
.IP "\fB-b\fR" 12
Outputs selected records in binary format.  
The output is in a format suitable for analysis by the 
.PN audit_tool .  
The default is to output in ASCII format.
.IP "\fB-B\fR" 12
Outputs selected records in an abbreviated format.  
Each selected event is displayed along with its audit_id, ruid,
result, error code, pid, event name, and parameter list.
Suppressed information includes the username, ppid, 
device id, current directory, gnode information, symbolic 
name referenced by any descriptors, IP address, and timestamp.
The default is to output in the non-abbreviated format.
.IP "\fB-d \fIfilename\fR" 12
Reads deselection rules from the specified file and suppress any records 
matching any of the deselection rules.
The deselection rulesets take 
precedence over other selection options.  Each deselection rule is a tuple 
consisting of hostname, audit_id, ruid, event, pathname, and flag.  The flag 
component is used to specify read or write mode; it pertains only to open 
events.  Wildcarding and simple pattern matching are supported.  
Take, for example, the following lines from a deselection file:
.EX
# HOST, AUID, RUID, EVENT, PATHNAME, FLAG
* * * open /usr/lib/* r
grumpy * * * /usr/spool/rwho* *
.EE
These lines indicate
that any open operations for read access on any object whose
pathname starts with 
.PN /usr/lib/ 
will not be selected, and on system \fBgrumpy\fR 
any operations performed on any object whose pathname starts on
.PN /usr/spool/rwho 
will not be selected.  (Lines beginning with number signs (#) are
treated as comment lines).  Any field can be replaced with an asterisk
(*), which indicates a match with any value.  Pathname matching requires
an exact match between strings, unless the pathname is suffixed with an
asterisk, which matches any string (so, for example, 
.PN /usr/spool/rwho*
matches 
.PN /usr/spool/rwho/anything ).  
The default is to apply no deselection rulesets.  
(Specifying the 
.PN \-D 
option instead of 
.PN \-d 
will additionally print the deselection rulesets to be applied). 
.IP "\fB-e \fIevent[:success:fail]\fR" 12
Selects records with a matching event.  Optionally select only those
records with a successful/failed return value.  
For example, the option 
.PN "\-e open:0:1"
selects for only failed open events.  Multiple events may be
specified on the command line.  
The default is to select for all events, both
successful and failed. 
.IP "\fB-E \fIerror\fR" 12
Selects records with a matching error.
The default is to select for all errors.
.IP "\fB-f\fR" 12
Causes the 
.PN audit_tool 
not to quit at and end-of-file, but to continue 
attempting to read data.  This is useful 
for reviewing auditlog data as it 
is being written by the audit daemon.  
(For SMP systems, audit data should 
be sorted first, as descriptor translation, loginname, current directory, 
and root directory all rely on state information maintained by the 
.PN audit_tool ).
.IP "\fB-g \fIgnode_id \fR" 12
Selects records with a matching gnode identifier number.
The default is to select for all gnode id's.
.IP "\fB-G \fIgnode_dev major#,minor#\fR" 12
Selects records with matching gnode device major/minor numbers.
The default is to select for all gnode devices.
.IP "\fB-h \fIhostname/IP address\fR" 12
Selects records with a matching hostname or IP address.  Hostnames are
translated to their IP addresses via the local 
.PN /etc/hosts 
file.  If the local 
.PN /etc/hosts 
is not available or contains insufficient information, IP
addresses should be used.  
The default is to select for all hostnames and IP addresses. 
.IP "\fB-i\fR" 12
Enter interactive selection mode to specify options.  Interactive mode may 
also be entered by hitting CTRL/C at any time, then specifying 
``no'' to the exit prompt.  Once in interactive mode, 
each option will be selected for.  Press Return
to accept the current setting (or default); enter 
an asterisk (*) to change the current setting back to the default.  
The default, unless otherwise stated, is to select every audit record.
.IP "\fB-o\fR" 12
Whenever the audit daemon switches auditlogs, an audit_log_change event is 
generated.  If that event did result in an auditlog change (that is, it 
was an event which occurred on the local system),
the 
.PN audit_tool 
will normally attempt to find and 
process the succeeding auditlog.  This is possible, however,
only if the auditlog is 
maintained locally.  The \fB-o\fR option tells the 
.PN audit_tool 
not to process succeeding auditlogs.
.IP "\fB-p \fIpid\fR" 12
Selects records with a matching pid.
The default is to select for all pids.
.IP "\fB-P \fIppid\fR" 12
Selects records with a matching parent pid (ppid).
The default is to select for all ppids.
.IP "\fB-r \fIruid\fR" 12
Selects records with a matching read uid (ruid).
The default is to select for all ruids.
.IP "\fB-R\fR" 12
Generates an ASCII report for each 
.I audit_id 
found in the selected events.  
Each report consists of those events selected which have an 
.I audit_id 
matching that of report suffix.  Report names are of the format 
report.xxxx, where xxxx is the 
.I audit_id.
.IP "\fB-s \fIstring\fR" 12
Selects records which contain \fIstring\fR in either a parameter field or a 
descriptor field.  
The default is to select for all strings.
.IP "\fB-S\fR" 12
Performs a sort (by time) on the auditlog.  The sort performed is an
inter-cpu sort only (for any specific cpu, data may be non-sequential for
events such as fork and vfork; this information does not need to be sorted
for proper operation of the reduction tool).  This option is useful only 
for data collected on an SMP system. 
.IP "\fB-t \fIstart_time\fR" 12
Selects records which contain a timestamp no earlier than \fIstart_time\fR.
Timestamp format is 
.I yymmdd[hh[mm[ss]]].  
The default is to select for all timestamps.
.IP "\fB-T \fIend_time\fR" 12
Selects records which contain a timestamp no later than \fIstart_time\fR.
Timestamp format is 
.I yymmdd[hh[mm[ss]]].  
The default is to select for all timestamps.
.IP "\fB-u \fIuid\fR" 12
Selects audit records with a matching uid.
The default is to select for all uid's.
.IP "\fB-U \fIusername\fR" 12
Selects audit records with a matching username.  Usernames are recorded at 
the \fIlogin\fR event and are associated with all child processes.
If \fIlogin\fR is not audited, no username will be present in the auditlog.  
Selecting for a \fIusername\fR will display those records which have a 
matching username.
The default is to select for all usernames.
.IP "\fB-x \fImajor#,minor#\fR" 12
Selects audit records with matching device major/minor numbers.
The default is to select for all devices.
.PP
The audit reduction tool generates auditlog header files, suffixed 
with .hdr, when it completes processing of a auditlog file.  If the \fB-o\fR 
option is used, no auditlog header file is generated.
This header file contains the time range in which the 
audited operations occurred, so searching for events by time requires only 
those auditlogs which were actually written into during that time to be 
processed by the reduction tool.  The header file also contains the sort 
status of the auditlog, so previously sorted logs don't get sorted more 
than once.
.SH Restrictions
The audit reduction tool maintains the state of each process in order to 
translate descriptors back to pathnames, as well as provide current working 
directory, root, and username.  In order not to run out of memory, 
.MS exit 2 
should be an audited event.  
In order to provide current working directory, 
.MS chdir 2 
should be an audited event.  In order to provide current root (if 
not /), 
.MS chroot 2 
should be an audited event.  In order to provide 
username, login should be an audited event.
.PP
All state relevant information current at the time of an auditlog change 
is maintained in the header file.  This allows subsequent scans of a 
specific auditlog to not have any dependencies on previous auditlogs.
.SH Examples
.NXR "audit_tool command" "examples"
The following example selects all \fBlogin\fR, \fBopen\fR and \fBcreat\fR
events performed on system \fBgrumpy\fR by any process with audit_id 1123:
.EX
audit_tool \-e login \-e open \-e creat \-h grumpy \-a 1123 auditlog.000
.EE
.PP
The following example applies deselection file \fIdeselect\fR to 
auditlog.000 and selects for events between 10:47 a.m. on April 13, 1986 
and 5:30 p.m. on April 20, 1986:
.EX
audit_tool \-d deselect \-t 8604131047 \-T 8604201730 auditlog.000
.EE
.SH See Also
auditd(8), auditmask(8)
