.\" SCCSID: @(#)auditd.8	4.0	11/04/14/89
.TH auditd 8
.SH Name
auditd \- audit daemon 
.SH Syntax
.B /etc/sec/auditd [
.I options ...
]
.SH Description 
.NXR "audit daemon"
The audit daemon, 
.PN auditd , 
operates as a server,
monitoring 
.PN /dev/audit
for local audit
data, monitoring a known port for data from remote cooperating audit
daemons, and monitoring an AF_UNIX socket for input from the system
administrator. 
.PP
Local audit data is read from the
.PN /dev/audit
device.  Data read from 
.PN /dev/audit
is buffered by the audit daemon, and 
eventually output into the 
auditlog when the buffer nears capacity or the daemon receives an explicit 
instruction from the administrator to flush its buffer.
.PP
Local administrative data is read via the socket 
.PN /tmp/.audit/audS .  
Input from the system administrator allows for 
changing of the daemon's configurable
options.  The administrator communicates with the audit daemon by
executing 
.PN auditd
with the desired options.  The first invocation 
of 
.PN auditd
spawns the daemon; subsequent invocations detect that an audit
daemon already exists and will communicate with it, passing along
directions for the selected options.  The first invocation of the daemon 
also turns on auditing for the system (
.MS audcntl 2 ).  
When the daemon is 
terminated, by the \f(CW-k\fR option or
the SIGTERM signal, auditing is turned off.
It is important not to have system auditing turned on when there is no
audit daemon running on the system (processes being audited will sleep 
until 
.PN /dev/audit
is read, which is typically done by the audit daemon).
.PP
Remote audit data is first detected 
when the remote audit daemon attempts 
to communicate with the local audit daemon.  
To establish a communications 
path between the remote and the local daemons, 
the remote audit daemons 
hostname is first checked against a list of hosts allowed to transmit data 
to the local host.  This list is maintained in 
.PN /etc/auditd_clients.  
If 
the remote host is allowed to transfer audit data to the local host, a 
child audit daemon dedicated to communicating with the remote host is 
spawned.
.SH Options
.NXR "auditd command" "options"
.IP "\fB-a\fR" 12
Toggle the KERBEROS switch.  If on, KERBEROS authentication routines will 
be used to verify the identity of any audit daemons attempting to 
communicate.  This occurs either when sending to a remote host (by
the \f(CW-i\fR option) or accepting from remote hosts 
(by the \f(CW-s\fR option).
.IP "\fB-b \fIalternate_pathname\fR" 12
Sets the pathname to which the audit daemon will write its data should the 
location currently accepting data become unavailable.  This can happen should 
the current location specify a remote host which is no longer available, or 
when the filesystem of the current location reaches an overflow condition 
(in this case, the alternate pathname must specify a partition other than 
the currently overflowing partition).
.IP "\fB-c \fIpathname\fR" 12
Sets the pathname to which the audit daemon will post any warning or 
informational messages (such as "audit log change").  This may be either a 
device or local file.
.IP "\fB-d\fR" 12
Causes the audit daemon to dump its currently buffered audit data out
to
.PN /dev/audit .  
The audit daemon normally dumps its buffer only when it 
approaches capacity.
.IP "\fB-f \fIpercentage\fR" 12
Sets the minimum percent free space on the current partition before 
an overflow 
condition is triggered.
.IP "\fB-h\fR" 12
Outputs a brief help menu.
.IP "\fB-i \fIhostname\fR" 12
Causes the audit daemon to transfer its audit data to the audit daemon 
executing on the remote host \fIhostname\fR.  If the remote site stops 
receiving, the local daemon will store its data
locally (in \fIalternate_pathname\fR if available).
.IP "\fB-k\fR" 12
Kills the audit daemon (killing the local daemon turns audit off).
.IP "\fB-l \fIpathname\fR" 12
Causes the audit daemon to output its audit data to the local
file \fIpathname\fR.
.IP "\fB-n \fIkbytes\fR" 12
Sets the size of the audit daemons buffer for the audit data (minimum is 4).
.IP "\fB-o \fIoverflow action\fR" 12
Sets the system action to take on a local overflow condition.  Alternatives
are a) use the alternate log specified via \-b option, b) shutdown the system, 
c) switch to the root-mounted filesystem with the most free space, d) 
suspend auditing until space is made available, and e) overwrite the 
current auditlog.
.IP "\fB-p \fIdaemon id\fR" 12
Specifies the id of the audit daemon to receive the current options.  When 
the local audit daemon accepts a connection to receive data from 
a remote audit 
daemon, a dedicated child audit daemon is spawned off from the 
local audit daemon to 
service that connection.  With this scenario, multiple audit daemons
may exist on a single system.  Specifying the id of the 
.PN auditd
allows for communication with one of the child audit daemons.  The
id for each daemon can be found by entering the following at the
command line:
.EX
.B /etc/sec/auditd -?
.EE
The previous command line displays
the current options.  No id's are displayed unless at least one child 
audit daemon exists.
If the \f(CW-p\fR option is not specified when running with
more than one audit daemon, the master daemon (accepting audit data for the 
local system) handles the request.  When the master daemon is killed, 
it kills all of its child daemons.
.IP "\fB-q\fR" 12
Queries the audit daemon for the current location of the audit data.
.IP "\fB-s\fR" 12
Toggles the network server switch.  If on, allows the audit daemon to 
accept audit data from other audit daemons whose hostnames are specified in 
the 
.PN /etc/auditd_clients
file.
.IP "\fB-t \fItimeout value\fR" 12
Sets the timeout value used in establishing initial connections with remote
audit daemons.
.IP "\fB-x\fR" 12
Auditlog pathnames are always appended with a suffix consisting of a 
generation number.  These generation numbers range from 0 to 999.  
(Generation numbers may be overridden via explicit generation number 
specification on the pathname for the \f(CW-lfR option, 
for example auditlog.345).
The \f(CW-x\fR option causes a change in 
auditlog to the next auditlog in the 
generation number sequence.  (If the current log was auditlog.345, 
then \f(CW-x\fR would change the log to auditlog.346).  
Whenever an auditlog is 
closed, it is also compressed (by 
.PN /usr/ucb/compress ).
.IP "\fB-z\fR" 12
Removes any AF_UNIX sockets left by previous daemons.  This occurs 
when the system shuts down abnormally.  This option is useful typically 
only for the 
.PN auditd 
invocation from the 
.PN /etc/rc.local
file.  If no
AF_UNIX socket is present, the next invocation of 
.PN auditd 
will start the
.PN audit 
daemon.  If an AF_UNIX socket is present, the next invocation of 
.PN auditd
will spawn a client process which will communicate with the system audit
daemon.  This \f(CW-z\fR option removes any leftover AF_UNIX sockets, forcing
a new audit daemon to start.  This should be used only when no audit daemon
is present on the system.
.IP "\fB-?\fR" 12
Shows the current status of the audit daemons options.
.SH Files
.PN /etc/auditd_clients
.SH See Also
audcntl(2), audit(4)
