.TH bootpd 8
.SH Name
bootpd \- Server to help boot diskless clients
.SH Syntax
.B /usr/etc/bootpd 
[
.B \-d
]
[
.B \-i
]
.SH Description
.NXR "diskless client" "booting"
.NXR "booting diskless clients"
.NXR "bootpd server"
The 
.PN bootpd
server is for the Internet BOOTP protocol (a UDP-based protocol).
This allows a diskless machine to find out its Internet address,
the address of a bootserver,
and the name of a file to boot.  
.PP
The
.PN bootpd
server is either started from
.PN /etc/rc.local ,
or from
.PN inetd .
If 
.PN bootpd
is started from
.PN inetd ,
the 
.B \-i 
flag must be supplied by
.PN /etc/inetd.conf .
The
.PN bootpd
server reads its configuration file,
.PN /etc/bootptab ,
when it starts up. When a new request arrives,
.PN bootpd
checks to see if the file has been modified, and if so, reads it again.
.PP
If started by
.PN inetd ,
.PN bootpd
waits until no new requests arrive for one minute.  This
limits the overhead of restarting the daemon without tying up
a process slot when nothing is happening.
The following is an example of the format of the configuration file:
.EX
#
# /etc/bootptab:  database for bootp server (/usr/etc/bootpd)
#
# Blank lines and lines beginning with '#' are ignored.
#
# home directory

/usr/local/bootfiles

# default bootfile 

defaultboot

# end of first section

%%

#
# The remainder of this file contains one line per client 
# interface with the information shown by the table headings 
# below. The host name is also tried as a suffix for the 
# bootfile when searching the home directory (that is, 
# bootfile.host)
#
# host		htype haddr		iaddr		bootfile
#

hostx		1 02:60:8c:06:35:05	99.44.0.65	ultrix
hosty		1 02:07:01:00:30:02	99.44.0.65	vms
hostz		1 02:60:8c:00:77:78	99.44.0.03	lps40
node1		1 02:60:8c:00:99:47	99.44.0.01	tops20
.EE
The first two lines specify the home (default) directory and the
default bootfile, respectively.  A line starting with two 
percent signs (%%) separates
these first lines from the host information table, which contains
an entry for each bootable host.
.PP
You should start with a configuration file similar to this and 
edit the host entries
to correspond to your local systems.  The host field does not have to
be a formal host name; it is used for identification in the log file
and also as a possible extension to the bootfile name.
.PP
The 
.PN htype 
is always 1 and corresponds to the hardware type assigned
Ethernet by the Assigned Numbers RFC.  The 
.PN haddr 
field can use 
a period (.), a hyphen (-), or a colon (:) as separators.  
The 
.PN bootfile 
entry is the file used if the
client does not know the name of the file it wants to boot.  This is
frequently the case when a diskless workstation is booted.
.PP
The 
.PN bootpd
server logs interesting events using
.PN syslog .
.SH Options
.IP \-d 5
Logs all requests and indicates what responses are made.
.IP \-i
If 
.PN bootpd
is started from
.PN inetd ,
the 
.B \-i 
flag must be supplied by
.PN /etc/inetd.conf .
.SH Files
.TP 15
.PN /etc/bootptab
Configuration file
.SH See Also
inetd(8c), tftpd(8c)
