.\" SCCSID: @(#)cmx.8	8.1	9/11/90
.TH cmx 8 
.SH Name
cmx \- generic communication exerciser
.SH Syntax
.B /usr/field/cmx
[
.B \-h
] [
.BI \-o file
.B ] [
.BI \-t n
] 
.B \-l
.I line-1 
.B ...
.SH Description
.NXR "cmx exerciser"
.NXR "terminal communications system" "testing"
The 
.PN cmx 
exerciser will write, read, and validate random data
and packet lengths on a given communications line. 
The line under
test must have a loopback connector attached to the
distribution panel or the cable and the line must be 
disabled in the 
.PN /etc/ttys 
file and a non-modem line.
That is, the 
.PN ty_status 
flag must be set to off.
.PP
The exerciser runs until
.CT C
or kill \-15 \fIpid\fR is sent to the process.
.PP
A logfile is made in 
.PN /usr/field
for you to examine and then remove.  If there are errors
listed in the logfile, make sure that you check the
.PN /usr/adm/syserr/syserr.<hostname> 
file, because that is where the driver and kernel error messages
are saved.
.PP
You must specify the 
.B \-l 
flag followed by the lines to test.
The \fIline-n\fR arguments identify the lines to be tested.
A maximum of 32 lines can be tested at any one time.  The
\fIline-n\fR arguments are specified as names taken from the 
.PN /dev
directory without the letters ``tty''.  For example, if the 
.PN /dev
directory lists tty03, the \fIline\fR argument is 03.
.PP
The DEVICES section lists the devices that can be tested.
.SH Restrictions 
If there is a need to run a system exerciser over an NFS link or on a diskless
system there are some restrictions.  For exercisers that need to write into a file
system, such as 
.MS fsx 8 ,
the target file system must be writable by root.  Also the directory, in which any
of the exercisers are executed, must be writable by root because temporary
files are written into the current directory.  These latter restrictions are
sometimes difficult to overcome because often NFS file systems are mounted in a
way that prevents root from writing into them.  Some of the restrictions may be
overcome by copying the exerciser to another directory and then executing it.  
.SH Options
.NXR "cmx exerciser" "options"
.IP \fB\-h\fR
Prints help message about this command.
.IP \fB\-o\fIfile\fR
Save output diagnostics in \fIfile\fR.
.IP \fB\-t\fIn\fR
Run time in minutes (\fIn\fR).
The default is to run until 
a 
.CT C
or 
\fBkill \-15 \fIpid\fR is sent to the process.
.SH Restrictions
.NXR "cmx exerciser" "pseudodevices and"
Pseudo devices (those whose first character after tty is 
p, q, r, s, t, u) cannot be tested.  Neither can lta devices
with major #39. 
.Nxr "cmx exerciser" "lta devices and"
.SH Devices
.NXR "cmx exerciser" "devices supported"
Use the 
.PN file
command on 
.PN /dev/tty* 
to find out which tty line corresponds to a
device line number.
.SH Examples
.NXR(e) "cmx exerciser"
The following example runs the
.PN cmx 
exerciser for 60 minutes on lines 00, 13, 22, and 32.
.EX
% /usr/field/cmx \-t60 \-l 00 13 22 32
.EE
The following example runs the
.PN cmx 
exerciser on lines 11, 42, 45, and 76 in the background until
interrupted by a
.CT C
or 
\fBkill \-15 \fIpid\fR.
.EX
% /usr/field/cmx \-l 11 42 45 76 &
.EE
.SH See Also
.I "Guide to System Exercisers"
