.\" SCCSID: @(#)config.8	3.1	11/24/87
.TH config 8 RISC
.SH Name
config \- build system configuration files
.SH Syntax
.B /etc/config
[\fB\-p\fR]
[\fB\-s\fR]
.I config_file
.SH Description
.NXR "config program"
.NXR "configuration file (syslog)" "building"
The
.PN config
command builds a set of system configuration files
from a short file which describes
the sort of system that is being configured.  
It also takes as input a file
which tells
.PN config
what files are needed to generate a system.
This can be augmented by a configuration specific set of files
that give alternate files for a specific machine.
(See the Files section.)
If the
.B \-p
option is supplied, 
.PN config
will configure a system for profiling.  You must have sources 
to use the \fB\-p\fR option.  Use the \fB\-s\fR option when
building a kernel from sources.
.PP
The
.PN config
command should be run from the
.PN conf
subdirectory of the system source (usually 
.PN /sys/conf
).
The
.PN config
command assumes that there is already a directory 
.PN \&.\&./config_file
created and it places all its output files in there.  
The output of
.PN config
consists of a number files:
.PN ioconf.c 
contains a description of what I/O devices are attached to the 
system, and
.PN makefile
is a file used by 
.MS make 1
in building the system; a set of header files which contain
the number of various devices that will be compiled into the system;
and a set of swap configuration files which contain definitions for
the disk areas to be used for swapping, the root file system,
argument processing, and system dumps.
.PP
After running
.PN config ,
it is necessary to run 
.PN "make depend"
in the directory where the new makefile
was created.
The
.PN config
command reminds you of this when it completes.
.PP
If you receive other error messages from
.PN config ,
fix the errors in your configuration file and try again.
If compile a system that has configuration errors, the system will fail.
.SH Restrictions
The line numbers reported in error messages are usually off by one.
.SH Files
.TP 20
.PN /sys/conf/mips/makefile.mips
Generic makefile 
.TP
.PN /sys/conf/mips
List of common files that the system is built from
.TP
.PN /sys/conf/mips/files.mips
List of machine specific files
.TP
.PN /sys/conf/mips/devices.mips
Name to major device mapping file 
.TP
.PN /sys/conf/mips/filesystems
List of known file systems
.SH See Also
The Syntax portion of each device in Section 4 of the
.I "ULTRIX Reference Pages"
.br
``Building 4.2BSD UNIX System with Config,''
.I "ULTRIX Supplementary Documents, Volume 3: System Manager"
