.TH dms 8
.SH Name
dms \- diskless management services utility
.SH Syntax
/etc/dms
.SH Description
.NXR "dms program (DMS)"
The 
.PN dms 
utility performs diskless management services. 
You can use 
.PN dms 
to install products into diskless management
services areas on a server machine and register diskless
clients so that they can
access those products on the server machine, rather than having
each client install the products to a disk on its local machine.
The server machine can be either a VAX or a RISC machine and
it can serve both VAX and RISC clients.
.PP
Before you set up a diskless management
services area on a server, the following software should
be installed: Local Area Network (LAN); Network File
System (NFS); and Maintenance Operations Protocol (MOP).
.PP
The 
.PN dms 
utility performs the following functions:
.TP 20
a - Add Client Processor
.TP
m - Modify Client Parameters
.TP
r - Remove Client Processor
.TP
l - List Registered Clients
.TP
s - Show Products in Diskless Environments
.TP
i - Install Software
.TP
c - Create Diskless Area on Disk
.TP
k - Kernel Rebuild or Copy 
.PP
To set up a diskless management services area on a server, 
select 
.PN dms 
functions in the following order:
.PP
1.   Create Diskless Area on Disk (c)
.IP
This sets up the disk partitions needed for the two
diskless management services file systems, 
.PN /dlenv? 
and 
.PN /dlclient? .
(The question mark (?) represents a unique number assigned by 
.PN dms .) 
The 
.PN /dlenv? 
file system contains a common root 
area that is copied to each client when it is registered,
and a 
.PN /usr 
area that is shared by all the clients.  
The
.PN /dlclient?
file system contains a copy of the common root area for each
registered diskless client.
.PP
2.   Install Software (i)
.IP
This installs the products from the distribution media to the 
.PN /dlenv? 
file system.
If the product will be accessed by VAX clients, the images from
the media are put under a 
.PN root?.vax 
directory under the
.PN /dlenv
file system.
If the product will be accessed by RISC clients, the images from
the media will be put under a 
.PN root?.mips 
directory under the
.PN /dlenv
file system.
The question mark (?) represents a unique number assigned by 
.PN dms .  
.PP
To register a diskless client, select the Add Client Processor 
option (a).
This copies the common root
area in the
.PN /dlenv? 
file system, for example, 
.PN /dlenv0/root0.vax
to the diskless client's directory in the
.PN /dlclient?
file system, for example, 
.PN /dlclient0/hostname.root.  
The server's 
.PN /etc/exports 
file is updated to allow the client to access its individual root and
the shared 
.PN /usr 
area.
.PP
Each diskless client's area also contains a client parameter file,
.PN /etc/dlparam .
.PP
You must use 
.PN dms 
interactively to set up a diskless environment or
to modify client parameters.  
.PP
There are several functions you can use either interactively
or from the command line:  
.TP 20
- Add Client Processor
.TP
- Show Products in Diskless Environments
.TP
- Remove Client Processor
.TP
- Kernel Rebuild
.PP
When the first diskless client is registered for a diskless
management services area, a database file,
.PN /usr/diskless/dmsdb ,
is created on the server machine.  
You can use this file and the command line to manage groups of
diskless clients.
.SH Files
.PN /usr/diskless/dmsdb
.br
.PN /etc/dlparam
.SH See Also
exports(5nfs), addnode(8), setld(8)
.br
.I "Guide to Diskless Management Services"
.br
.I "Guide to Server Setup"
