.TH doconfig 8 RISC
.SH Name
doconfig \- a program to aid system configuration
.SH Syntax
\fB/etc/doconfig\fR 
[\fB\-c \fIconfig_file\fR] [\fB\-e \fIed_script\fR]
.SH Description
.NXR "doconfig program"
.NXA "config program" "doconfig program"
.NXA "doconfig program" "sizer program"
.NXR "configuration file (syslog)" "building"
The
.PN doconfig
shell script modifies a copy of the GENERIC configuration file for a
new ULTRIX system kernel.  The script prompts you for the system name.  
If the system name does not currently exist, a system configuration file 
with that system name is built.
.PP
Whether the configuration file is built or not, the script then 
allows you to edit, configure, and build until both the configuration
and the kernel build run without errors.  Additional runs of
.PN doconfig
can be made to tune the configuration further.
.PP
When new hardware is added to a system, the configuration file
should be updated to reflect the new system configuration.  When updating 
an existing configuration file or creating a new configuration file with
.PN doconfig ,
the system must be operating the generic kernel or new hardware may not be
found.  To successfully complete the 
.PN doconfig
process, follow these steps:
.IP 1. 5
Save the running
.PN vmunix
as
.PN vmunix.old .
.IP 2.
Move
.PN /genvmunix
to
.PN /vmunix .
.IP 3.
Reboot the system to single user mode.
.IP 4.
Check file systems. 
.IP 5.
Mount the
.PN /usr
file system.
.IP 6.
Run the
.PN doconfig
program.  (When execution is complete, make a note of 
the message
.PN doconfig
prints showing the path and location of the new
.PN vmunix .)
.IP 7.
Move
.PN /vmunix
to
.PN /genvmunix .
.IP 8.
Copy the new
.PN vmunix
(from the message noted above) to
.PN /vmunix .
.IP 9.
Reboot the system.
.SH Options
.TP
.B \-c
The name of the existing configuration file should be supplied without
specifying the pathname.  This file should exist in the
.PN /sys/conf/mips
directory.
A new kernel is built using the specified configuration file.
.TP
.B \-e 
When specified, the configuration file is edited by the ed
script before building the new kernel.
.SH Files
.PN /tmp/\fISYSTEMNAME\fP
.br
.PN /sys/MIPS/\fISYSTEMNAME\fP
.br
.PN /sys/conf/mips/\fISYSTEMNAME\fP
.SH See Also
ed(1), config(8)
.br
.I "Basic Installation Guide"
.br
.I "Guide to System Configuration File Maintenance"
