.TH dp 8mh
.SH Name
dp \- parse dates RFC 822-style
.SH Syntax
.B /usr/lib/mh/dp
[
.B \-form
.I file
] [
.B \-format
.I string
] [
.B \-help
] [
.B \-width
.I columns
]
.I dates
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Description
.NXR "dp program"
.NXR "RFC 822" "date parsing"
The 
.PN dp
command parses dates according to the ARPA Internet standard.
It also understands many non-standard formats,
such as those produced by TOPS-20 sites and some UNIX sites using
.MS ctime 3 .
It is useful for seeing how MH will interpret a date.
.PP
The 
.PN dp
program treats each argument as a single date,
and prints the date out in the official RFC 822 format.
Hence, it is usually best to enclose each argument 
in double quotes (") for the shell.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Options
.IP "\-form \fIfile\fB" 10
Overrides the default output format of
.PN dp .
The output is formatted according to the instructions
in the specified file.
This must be a format file; see
.MS mh-format 5mh .
.\"
.IP "\-format \fIstring\fB" 10
Overrides the default output format of
.PN dp .
The output is formatted according to the instructions
in the specified string.
This must be a format string; see
.MS mh-format 5mh .
.IP
The argument to the
.B \-format
option must be interpreted as a single token
by the shell that invokes
.PN dp .
Therefore, you should usually place the argument to this
option inside double quotes (").
.\"
.IP "\-help" 10
Prints a list of the valid options to this command.
.\"
.IP "\-width \fIcolumns\fB" 10
Specifies the width of the screen in columns.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The defaults for this command are as follows:
.IP
.B \-width
defaults to the width of the terminal
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Examples
This is the default format string used by
.PN dp :
.EX
%<(nodate{text})error: %{text}%|%(pretty{text})%>
.EE
.PP
When an error is detected, this prints 
\f(CWerror:\fR 
and the date that is in error.
Otherwise, it outputs the proper RFC 822 format of the date.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Files
.TP 10
.PN $HOME/.mh_profile
User profile.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH See Also
ap(8mh)
.br
.I "Standard for the Format of ARPA Internet Text Messages"
(RFC 822)
