.\" SCCSID: @(#)dskx.8	8.1	9/11/90
.TH dskx 8 
.SH Name
dskx \- generic disk exerciser
.SH Syntax
.B /usr/field/dskx
[
.I options
.B ] 
.BI \-r dev
.br
.B /usr/field/dskx
.B [
.I options
.B ]
.BI \-p devpart
.br
.B /usr/field/dskx [
.I options
.B ]
.BI \-c dev
.SH Description
.NXR "dskx exerciser"
.NXR "disk" "testing"
The 
.PN dskx 
exerciser tests the disk drives on your system.
The exerciser has three main options which include
read only, write/read/validate data on a partition, and 
write/read/validate data of a disk. 
.PP
The exerciser does random seeks and reads of random block
sizes and random seeks, writes, reads, and validations of random data
patterns of random block sizes. The exerciser will run 
until 
.CT C
or kill \-15 \fIpid\fR is sent to the
process. 
.PP
A logfile is made in 
.PN /usr/field
for you to examine 
and then remove. If there are errors in the logfile, make sure
you check the 
.PN /usr/adm/syserr/syserr.<hostname>
file, 
because that is where the
driver and kernel error messages are saved.
.PP
CAUTION: Both the \fB\-c\fR and \fB\-p\fR options of the
.PN dskx
exerciser destroy data on the disk.  Use extreme caution before
using them on any non-scratch media.  If you are unsure of
what data is on the disk, contact your system manager before
running
.PN dskx
with either of these options.
.SH Arguments
.NXR "dskx exerciser" "arguments"
One of the following function flags and arguments must be specified.
.IP \fB\-r\fIdev\fR 1i
Performs a random read-only test on all partitions except the \fBc\fR
partition.  The \fIdev\fR argument can be a raw or buffered
device name and number.  For example, rhp0, ra3, hk1.
.IP \fB\-p\fIdevpart\fR 1i
Writes, reads, and validates data from the device name and
number specified by \fIdev\fR and the partition specified
by \fIpart\fR.  The \fIdev\fR argument can be a raw or
buffered device name and number.  For example, rhp0, ra3, hk1.
The \fIpart\fR argument can be any valid partition from \fBa\fR
\- \fBh\fR.
.IP "" 1i
CAUTION:  Be careful when exercising partitions that overlap other
partitions, as you may inadvertently destroy data on a
partition that you do not want to test.  You can use the
\fB\-q\fR option of the
.MS chpt 8
command to see what partitions overlap on the device on your
system.
.IP \fB\-c\fIdev\fR 1i
Writes, reads, and validates data from all partitions except
the \fBc\fR partition on the device specified by
\fIdev\fR.  The \fIdev\fR argument can be a raw or buffered
device name and number.  For example, rhp0, ra3, hk1.
.SH Options
.NXR "dskx exerciser" "options"
.PP
The 
.PN dskx
options are:
.IP \fB\-h\fR 1i
Prints help message for the
.PN dskx 
command.
.IP \fB\-o\fIfile\fR 1i
Saves output diagnostics in \fIfile\fR.
.IP \fB\-t\fIn\fR 1i
Specifies the run time in minutes (\fIn\fR).  The
default is to run until the process receives
a
.CT C
or \f(CWkill \-15 \fIpid\fR.
.IP \fB\-d\fIm\fR
Prints statistics every \fIm\fR minutes.
.SH Restrictions 
If there is a need to run a system exerciser over an NFS link or on a diskless
system there are some restrictions.  For exercisers that need to write into a file
system, such as 
.MS fsx 8 ,
the target file system must be writable by root.  Also the directory, in which any
of the exercisers are executed, must be writable by root because temporary
files are written into the current directory.  These latter restrictions are
sometimes difficult to overcome because often NFS file systems are mounted in a
way that prevents root from writing into them.  Some of the restrictions may be
overcome by copying the exerciser to another directory and then executing it.  
.SH Examples
.NXR "dskx exerciser" "examples"
The following example exercises RA disk unit 1,
for 60 minutes in the background:
.EX
% /usr/field/dskx \-t60 \-cra1 &
.EE
The following example exercises raw HP disk unit 0,
partition d, until 
.CT C
or
\fBkill \-15 \fIpid\fR:
.EX
% /usr/field/dskx \-prhp0d
.EE
.SH See Also
.I "Guide to System Exercisers"
