.\" to produce output: 
.\" ditroff -Tln01 -t -man filename | lpr -n -Pln &
.TH dupterm 8
.SH Name
dupterm \- DUP virtual terminal program
.SH Syntax
.B /usr/etc/dupterm
.SH Description
.NXR "dupterm utility"
.NXR "DUP virtual terminal program"
.NXR "DSA disk" "DSA tape" "managing"
.NXS "Digital Storage Architecture" "DSA disk" "DSA tape"
The DUP virtual terminal program 
.PN dupterm
provides access to the diagnostic and utility features of DSA (DIGITAL Storage
Architecture) intelligent disk and tape controllers.
.PP
Depending upon the particular controller, operations may include the execution
of controller resident diagnostics and utilities or those downloaded from the
host system.
.PP 
Further information regarding the operation of the utility and diagnostic
capabilities associated with a particular controller may be obtained from the
appropriate documentation set for that controller. 
.PP
Once invoked, 
.PN dupterm 
prompts the user with "DUP>> ", and waits for a command.
.PN dupterm
can be in one of three states at any time. When it is started, it is in
.PN local
state. 
When it has established a connection to the 
.PN DUP
.PN SYSAP
on the remote controller, it is in the 
.PN connect
state.
When it starts execution of a diagnostic or utility on the remote
controller, it enters the
.PN run
state.
In this state, user typein is normally transmitted to the remote
program.
To force 
.PN dupterm
to interpret a command locally instead, enter a '.' character as the
first character of the command line.
To transmit a '.' as the first character of a command line to the remote
program, enter two periods as the first two characters of the command.
.PP
The 
.PN dupterm
program recognizes the following commands.
Commands are case insensitive. 
The minimum acceptable abbreviation for each command is shown in uppercase.
.PP
.IP "\fBHelp\fR" 8
Displays a brief description of all commands.
.IP "\fBABort\fI" 8
Valid only in 
.PN run
state.
Aborts the execution of the remote program. 
Enters the 
.PN connect
state.
.IP "\fBConnect \fIscs-node-name\fR" 8
Valid only in 
.PN local
state.
Attempts to establish a connection to the SCS node named
.PN scs-node-name .
If successful, 
.PN dupterm
enters the
.PN connect
state. Use the 
.PN info
command to get a list of available SCS nodes.
.IP "\fB^ \fIchar\fR" 8
Valid in 
.PN run
state.
Sends a control character to the remote program. 
The space between the "^" and 
.PN char
is ignored. 
.IP "\fBDIsconnect\fR" 8
Valid only in states 
.PN connect
or
.PN run .
Breaks the connection. 
If a remote program was executing, terminates it as well.
.IP "\fBDust\fR" 8
Valid in states
.PN connect
or
.PN run .
Issues a GET DUP STATUS command to the connected controller, and
displays the results.
.IP "\fBINFO\fR" 8
Valid in all states.
Displays SCS related information, such as the node names and their SCS
id's.
.IP "\fBLOG [\fIlog-file-name\fR]" 8
Valid in all states.
If a file name is given, all interaction is logged in the file. If no
file is given, terminates logging.
.IP "\fBQuit\fR" 8
Quits the 
.PN dupterm
session.
.IP "\fBRunl \fItask-name\fR" 8
Valid only in
.PN connect
state.
Loads the  program 
.PN task-name
from the local media on the controller, and  starts its execution.
If successful, 
.PN dupterm
enters the 
.PN run
state. 
Whether
.PN task-name
is case-sensitive or not depends on the controller.
.IP "\fBRUNS \fItask-or-file-name\fR" 8
Valid only in
.PN connect
state.
Attempts to load the program
.PN task-or-file-name
first from the file 
.PN /usr/field/dup/
.PN task-or-file-name.ext ,
on the local host, and if not found, from the file
.PN task-or-file-name ,
and  starts its execution.
.PN ext
is the program name extension as returned by the controller.
If successful, 
.PN dupterm
enters the
.PN connect
state.
.IP "\fBSEt HSCmode \fI{ON|OFf}\fR" 8
Valid in any state. When 
.PN HSCMODE
is set to 
.PN ON , 
.PN dupterm
does some special processing needed by the HSC-nn controllers.
.IP "\fBSEt SERver {\fI-d|scs_sysap_name\fR}" 8
Valid in any state.
Sets the name of the SYSAP name to use to establish the connection. If
.B \-d
option is given, tells it to use the default servers "DUP", 
"MSCP$DUP", and "DUP$SERVER" in order.
.IP "\fBSHOw NODe\fR" 8
Valid only in the states
.PN connect
or
.PN run .
Displays the name of the node 
.PN dupterm
is connected to currently.
.IP "\fBSHOw SERver\fR" 8
Valid in any state. 
Displays the current server setting.
.IP "\fBSHOw STATus\fR" 8
Valid in any state. Displays the current status of 
.PN dupterm , 
including which controller it is connected to, and which program it 
is executing, if any.
.IP "\fBSHOw TASk\fR" 8
Valid only in 
.PN run
state.
Shows the name of the remote diagnostic or utility currently executing.
.IP "\fBSHOw VERsion\fR" 8
Displays version information about dupterm and the dup driver. Useful for reporting problems.
.IP "\fBSYNChronize\fR" 8
Valid in all states. 
Forces
.PN dupterm
to change its state to confirm to the actual state of the remote
controller. 
This is useful if the remote program does not confirm to the DUP
Standard Dialogue.
In this case, there is no way for 
.PN dupterm
to know that the remote program has terminated.
This command can change the state appropriately.
.SH Restrictions
Execution of some diagnostic and utility programs may interfere with normal
activities of the controller.  Refer to the appropriate controller
documentation set for further specifics.
.PP
To use 
.PN dupterm
with a HSC-nn controller, first execute the command
.PN set 
.PN hsc
.PN on
before connecting. 
When the connection is established, the "HSC-nn>> " prompt is displayed. 
At this point, HSC commands may be entered. 
When an HSC command completes, one must type 
.br 
.B \ \&.^Y
.br
to get the "HSC-nn>> " prompt again.
To quit, type the command
.br
.B \ \&.abort
.br
to abort the program on the HSC, or
.br
.B \ \&.disconnect
.br
to abort and disconnect.
Note that these commands must be preceded by a "." in order
to force them to be interpreted by
.PN dupterm
locally, rather than being passed on to the controller.
.PP
The
.PN dupterm
program cannot be run with its input redirected. This has to do with the fact that it has
to wait on both the controller, and the user input, and there is no reliable way
to determine when the next line of input from the user should be read and sent to 
the controller. This is a limitation of the 
.PN DUP
protocol.
.SH Diagnostics
The
.PN dupterm
utility generates messages when the user does not have the appropriate
privileges and when operational errors occur.
.SH Files
.TP 20
.PN /dev/fya<n>
Device special files to connect to the driver.
