.\" SCCSID: @(#)edquota.8	8.1	9/11/90
.TH edquota 8
.SH Name
edquota \- edit user quotas
.SH Syntax
.B edquota
[
.B \-p
.I proto-user
]
.IR users ...
.SH Description
.NXR "edquota editor"
.NXR "disk quota" "editing"
.NXA "quotacheck command" "edquota editor"
The
.PN edquota
command is a quota editor.  You can specify one or more users
on the command line.
For each user,
.PN edquota
creates  a temporary file 
with an ASCII representation of the current
disc quotas for that user and an editor is
then invoked on the file.  You can then modify 
the quotas, add new quotas, and so forth. 
Upon leaving the editor,
.PN edquota
reads the temporary file and modifies the binary
quota files to reflect the changes made.
.PP
If a valid quota file does not exist,
.PN edquota
refers the user to 
.MS quotacheck 8 .
The user then has the option of either
supplying the command
.PN "quotacheck \-f filesystem" ,
which automatically creates the
necessary quota file, or creating
an empty quota file by various other means.
.PP
If the 
.PN \-p
option is specified,
.PN edquota
duplicates for each user, the quotas of the prototypical user
specified. This is the usual mechanism used to initialize 
quotas for groups of users.
.PP
The editor invoked is 
.MS vi 1 ,
unless the environment variable EDITOR specifies otherwise.
.PP
Only the superuser can edit quotas.
.SH Diagnostics
Various messages about inaccessible files. Other
messages are self-explanatory.
.SH Files
.TP 15
.I quotas
At the root of each file system with quotas
.TP
.PN /etc/fstab
Used to find file system names and locations
.SH See Also
quota(1), quota(2), quotacheck(8), quotaon(8), repquota(8)
.br
``Disk Quotas in a UNIX Environment,'' 
.I "ULTRIX Supplementary Documents, Volume 3: System Manager"
