.\" SCCSID: @(#)elcsd.8	8.1	9/11/90
.TH elcsd 8
.UC 4
.SH Name
elcsd \- error logging daemon 
.SH Syntax
.B /etc/elcsd 
.SH Description 
.NXR "elcsd daemon"
.NXA "elcsd daemon" "uerf command"
.NXAM "elcsd daemon" "errlog file"
.NXAM "elcsd daemon" "elcsd.conf file"
.NXR "error logging daemon"
.NXA "error logging daemon" "error report formatter"
.NXAM "error logging daemon" "error logging interface"
.NXAM "error logging daemon" "elcsd.conf file"
The 
.PN elcsd
daemon logs hardware and system-related error packets, or error
messages, from the kernel errorlog buffer to the file
\f(CWsyserr.<\fIhostname\fP>\fR.  
Hostname is the name of the local system.  At
system startup, the 
.PN elcsd 
daemon is invoked out of 
.PN /etc/rc. 
For further information, see 
.MS rc 8 .
The 
.PN elcsd 
daemon must be running whenever the system is in multiuser
mode.
.PP
To invoke the 
.PN elcsd 
daemon in single-user mode, use the 
.pN eli 
command
with the
.B \-s 
option.  
.PP
You can configure the 
.PN elcsd 
daemon to log error packets locally from a
remote ULTRIX host, or you can configure the 
.PN elcsd 
daemon to send local error packets to a remote system.  Do this by
changing the entries in the 
.PN elcsd.conf 
file.  For further information, see 
.MS elcsd.conf 5 . 
The daemon uses an internet datagram socket to log information across
systems.
.PP
Parameters related to 
.PN elcsd ,
such as the desired location for the errorlog file or files, as well
as instructions for local and remote logging, can be specified in the
error logging configuration file, 
.PN /etc/elcsd.conf. 
For further information, see 
.MS elcsd.conf 5 .  
.SH Restrictions
You must have superuser privileges to invoke the 
.PN elcsd 
daemon.
.SH Diagnostics 
The 
.PN elcsd 
daemon logs general status and error messages to
.PN /usr/adm/elcsdlog 
in multiuser mode.  This file is purged whenever the
daemon is restarted.
.SH Files
.PN /etc/elcsd.conf	
.br
.PN /usr/adm/elcsdlog
.SH See Also
elcsd.conf(5), eli(8), rc(8), uerf(8)
.br
.I "Guide to the Error Logger"
