.\" SCCSID: @(#)eli.8	2.1	3/10/87
.TH eli 8
.SH Name
eli \- error log initialization program
.SH Syntax
.B eli [ 
.I options\fB ]
.SH Description
.NXR "eli command"
.NXAM "eli command" "errlog file"
.NXR "error logging" "initializing"
The 
.PN eli 
command initializes error logging.  This command enables error logging
of hardware and system-related error packets, or error messages, from
the kernel errorlog buffer.  It can also disable error logging,
reconfigure error logging parameters, or initialize the kernel errorlog
buffer.
.SH Options
.TP
.B \-d
Disables error logging.
.TP
.B \-e
Enables error logging in multiuser mode.
.TP
.B \-f
Forces the subsequent option; the system will not prompt.  This is
the only 
.PN eli 
command option you can use with another option.
.TP
.B \-h
Prints information about the 
.PN eli 
command.
.TP
.B \-i
Initializes the kernel errorlog buffer.  The previous contents of the
errorlog buffer are lost.
.TP
.B \-l
Logs a one-line status message to the kernel errorlog buffer.
.TP
.B \-n
Only supported for local error logging.  Disables logging error 
packets to disk by the 
.PN elcsd
daemon. High priority error messages continue to be printed at 
the console.  Note that error log packets can be viewed by using the
.PN uerf \-\|n
option in real time, but are never written to the disk.  For this
reason, this option is rarely used. 
.TP
.B \-q
Suppresses the periodic display, on the console, of the missed error 
message that results from a full kernel errorlog buffer.
.TP
.B \-r
Reconfigures error logging.  Use this option after changing the
.PN /etc/elcsd.conf
file.
.TP
.B \-s
Enables error logging in single-user mode.
.TP
.B \-w
Enables the missed error message to appear on the console every 15
minutes.  This option is the opposite of 
.PN \-q . 
.SH Examples
This example logs a one-line message into the errorlog file.
.EX
eli \-f \-l "This is a test message"
.EE
This example logs a message, up to and including the first new line,
from the file 
.PN myfile :
.EX
eli \-f \-l < myfile > /dev/null
.EE
.SH Restrictions
You must have superuser privileges to use the 
.PN eli 
command.
.sp
Only the \fB\-f\fR option can be used with other 
.PN eli
options.
You must use the syntax shown in the examples above.
.SH Diagnostics 
.B "eli: Request Aborted."
.br
The requested action was aborted.  The reason for the aborted command is
included with the output. 
.SH Files
.PN /etc/elcsd.conf	
.SH See Also
elcsd.conf(5), elcsd(8), uerf(8)
.br
.I "Guide to the Error Logger" 
