.\" SCCSID: @(#)fsck.8	2.2	5/12/87
.TH fsck 8
.SH Name
fsck \- check and repair file system 
.SH Syntax
.B /etc/fsck
[
.B \-p
.B \-P
]
[
\fIfilesystem\fR ...
]
.br
.B /etc/fsck
[
.B \-b
\fIblock\fR
] [
.B \-y
] [
.B \-n
] [
\fIfilesystem\fR
] ...
.SH Description
.NXB "fsck command"
.NXB "file system" "checking consistency"
.NXB "file system" "repairing interactively"
.NXAM "fs file" "fsck command"
The
.PN fsck
command checks and corrects either a standard set of file systems or the
specified file systems for consistency.
This command is normally used
in the script
.PN /etc/rc
during automatic reboot.
In this case,
.PN fsck
reads the
.PN /etc/fstab 
file to determine which UFS file systems to check.
It uses the 
.PN fstab 
information to inspect groups of disks in parallel,
taking advantage of I/O overlap to check the file systems
as quickly as possible.
.PP
The 
.PN fsck
command makes a number of passes to check the file systems
for consistency.
Usually,
the root file system is checked on pass 1,
other root file systems such as partition
.PN a
are checked on pass 2,
and other small file systems are checked on separate passes.
For example, the
.PN d
file systems are usually checked
on pass 3 and the
.PN e
file systems are usually checked on pass 4.
The large user file systems are usually checked on the final pass.
A pass number of 0 in
.PN /etc/fstab 
causes a disk to not be checked.
Similarly,
partitions that are not shown to be mounted with
.PN rw
or
.PN ro
are not checked.
.PP
The
.PN \-p
option should be used to check file systems.
The generic file system interface,
.PN gfs ,
causes
.PN fsck
to realize when a file system
is unmounted cleanly and thus prevents
.PN fsck
from doing the check.
File systems are unmounted cleanly only when an error-free shutdown 
has been performed or the file system was unmounted.
However, a timeout factor is used by
.PN fsck
to determine if
.PN fsck
should be run regardless of the value of the clean byte.
The timeout factor is initially set to 20 and is decremented 
when any one of three events occur:
.RS
.IP \- 3
A file system is mounted,
.IP \-
10,000 updates have occurred 
.IP \-
A file system was updated and 
.PN fsck
occurred more than 60 days prior
.RE
.PP
When the timeout factor reaches 0, 
.PN fsck
will automatically check it.
This factor can be changed with 
.PN tunefs .
If the
.PN \-P
option is used, the parallel consistency checks
are performed like the
.PN \-p
option regardless of how the file system was unmounted.
.PP
If an attempt is made to check a mounted file system using the block
device,
.PN fsck
will report
.I filesystem:
.PN "NO WRITE ACCESS"
and will check the filesystem as if the 
.PN \-n
option is selected.
.PP
The system ensures that only a restricted class of file system
inconsistencies can occur unless hardware or software failures
intervene.
The inconsistencies are limited to:
.IP 
Unreferenced inodes
.IP 
Link counts in inodes are too large
.IP 
Missing blocks in the free list
.IP 
Blocks in the free list are also in files
.IP 
Counts in the superblock are wrong
.PP
These are the only inconsistencies that 
.PN fsck
corrects with either the
.PN \-p
or 
.PN \-P
option.
If
.PN fsck
encounters other inconsistencies, it exits
with an abnormal return status and an automatic reboot will then fail.
For each corrected inconsistency one or more lines are printed
identifying the file system on which the correction will take place
and the nature of the correction.  
If any inconsistencies occur,
the message 
.PN "**** FILE SYSTEM MODIFIED, VERIFYING"
is printed and 
.PN fsck
runs again to verify that the appropriate
changes were made.
After correcting a file system,
.PN fsck
prints the number of files on that file system and the number of
used and free blocks and also the percent of fragments vs blocks.
When the fragmentation exceeds 5% it is recommended that the file
system be dumped to tape, 
.PN newfs ,
and restored.
Also,
a clean byte is set for the checked file system.
The root file system is checked regardless of whether the
clean byte is set.
.PP
Without the
.PN \-p
or 
.PN \-P
options,
.PN fsck
audits and interactively repairs inconsistent conditions for 
file systems.
If the file system is inconsistent,
the operator is prompted before each correction is attempted.
It should be noted that a number of the corrective actions which are not
fixable using the
.PN \-p
or 
.PN \-P
options will result in some loss of data.
The amount and severity of data lost may be determined from
the diagnostic output.
The default action for each consistency correction
is to wait for the operator to respond
.PN yes
or
.PN no .
If the operator does not have write permission,
.PN fsck
defaults to a 
.PN \-n
action.
.PP
If no file systems are given to 
.PN fsck ,
then a default list of file systems is read from
the file
.PN /etc/fstab .
The
.PN fsck
command
only checks file systems of type UFS.
.PP
.ne 10
The 
.PN fsck
command checks for the following inconsistencies:
.IP 
Blocks claimed by more than one inode or the free list.
.IP 
Blocks claimed by an inode or the free list outside the range of
the file system.
.IP 
Incorrect link counts.
.IP 
Size checks; directory size not of proper format.
.IP 
Bad inode format.
.IP 
Blocks not accounted for.
.IP 
Directory checks;
file pointing to unallocated inode;
inode number out of range.
.IP 
Superblock checks;
more blocks for inodes than there are in the file system.
.IP 
Bad free block list format.
.IP 
Total free block or free inode count incorrect.
.PP
If
.PN fsck
detects allocated but unreferenced files and directories,
it prompts you before placing them in the
.PN lost+found
directory.
The only restriction is that the directory 
.PN lost+found
must exist in the root of the file system being checked and
must have empty slots before
.PN fsck
is run.
If necessary,
the
.PN lost+found
directory can be enlarged by creating many files in the
directory and then removing them.
.PP
General users can run
.PN fsck
on file systems with certain restrictions.
The user must have execute permissions on the device and 
general users cannot run
.PN fsck
on a mounted file system.
.SH Options
.NXR "fsck command" "options"
.IP \fB\-b\fR
Use the block specified immediately after the flag as
the superblock for the file system.  Block 32 is always
an alternate superblock.
.IP \fB\-y\fR
Assume a
.PN yes
response to all questions asked by 
.PN fsck ;
this should be used with caution as this allows
.PN fsck
to continue after essentially unlimited trouble has been encountered.
.IP \fB\-n\fR
Assume a
.PN no
response to all questions asked by 
.PN fsck ;
do not open the file system for writing.
.IP \fB\-p\fR
Check a file system that was not unmounted cleanly.
.IP \fB\-P\fR
Check a file system regardless of how it was unmounted.
.SH Restrictions
.NXR "fsck command" "restricted"
Inode numbers for
.PN \&.
and
.PN \&.\&.
in each directory should be checked for validity.
The
.PN fsck
command
will not allow checking a raw device if the block device is mounted.
.SH Files
.TP 21
.PN /etc/fstab
Contains default list of file systems to check
.SH See Also
getmnt(2), fstab(5), ufs(5), crash(8v), mkfs(8), mklost+found(8),
mount(8), mount(8ufs), newfs(8), reboot(8), tunefs(8)
.NXE "fsck command"
.NXE "file system" "checking consistency"
.NXE "file system" "repairing interactively"
