.\" SCCSID: @(#)ftpd.8c	8.1	9/11/90
.TH ftpd 8c
.SH Name
ftpd \- DARPA Internet File Transfer Protocol server
.SH Syntax
.B /usr/etc/ftpd
[
.B \-d
] [
.B \-l
] [
.BR \-t timeout
]
.SH Description
.NXB "ftpd server"
.NXR "Internet File Transfer Protocol server"
The 
.PN ftpd
server is the DARPA Internet File Transfer Protocol
server process.  The server uses the TCP protocol
and is invoked by
.PN inetd(8c)
when it receives a connection on the port specified in the 
.PN ftp
service specification.  For further information, see
.PN services(5).
.PP
The 
.PN ftp
server currently supports the following
.PN ftp
requests.  Case is not distinguished.
.PP
.NXB "ftpd server" "request list"
.IP \fBRequest\fR 9
\fBDescription\fR
.IP ABOR 10
Abort previous command
.IP ACCT 10
Specify account 
.IP ALLO 10 
Allocate storage 
.IP APPE 10 
Append to a file
.IP CDUP 10 
Change to parent of current working directory
.IP CWD 10 
Change working directory
.IP DELE 10 
Delete a file
.IP HELP 10 
Give help information
.IP LIST 10 
Give list of files in a directory (\f(CWls \-lg\fP)
.IP MKD 10 
Make a directory
.IP MODE 10 
Specify data transfer \fImode\fP
.IP NLST 10 
Give name list of files in directory (\f(CWls\fP)
.IP NOOP 10 
Do nothing
.IP PASS 10 
Specify password
.IP PASV 10 
Prepare for server-to-server transfer
.IP PORT 10 
Specify data connection port
.IP PWD 10 
Print the current working directory
.IP QUIT 10 
Terminate session
.IP RETR 10 
Retrieve a file
.IP RMD 10 
Remove a directory
.IP RNFR 10 
Specify rename-from file name
.IP RNTO 10 
Specify rename-to file name
.IP STOR 10 
Store a file
.IP STOU 10 
Store a file with a unique name
.IP STRU 10 
Specify data transfer \fIstructure\fP
.IP TYPE 10 
Specify data transfer \fItype\fP
.IP USER 10 
Specify user name
.IP XCUP 10 
Change to parent of current working directory
.IP XCWD 10 
Change working directory
.IP XMKD 10 
Make a directory
.IP XPWD 10 
Print the current working directory
.IP XRMD 10 
Remove a directory
.PP
The remaining 
.PN ftp
requests specified in Internet RFC 959 are
recognized, but not implemented.
.NXE "ftpd server" "request list"
.PP
The
.PN ftpd
server interprets file names according to the globbing
conventions used by
.PN csh(1).
This allows users to utilize the metacharacters *?[]{}~.
.PP
The
.PN ftpd
server authenticates users according to three rules: 
.NXR "ftpd server" "verifying users"
.IP 1. 5
The user name must be in the password database,
.PN /etc/passwd ,
and not have a null password.  In this case a password
must be provided by the client before any file operations
may be performed.
.IP 2. 5
The user name must not appear in the file
.PN /etc/ftpusers .
.IP 3. 5
If the user name is anonymous or 
.PN ftp , 
an anonymous 
.PN ftp
account must be present in the password
file (user \f(CWftp\fP).  In this case the user is allowed
to log in by specifying any password (by convention this
is given as the client host's name).
.PP
In the last case, 
.PN ftpd
takes special measures to restrict the client's access privileges.
.NXR "ftpd server" "restricting access"
The server performs a 
.PN chroot(2)
command to the home directory of the 
.PN ftp 
user. To prevent system security from being breached, it is recommended
that the 
.PN ftp 
subtree be constructed with care.  Thus the following
rules are recommended:
.IP \fB~ftp)\fR 10 
Make the home directory owned by 
.PN ftp 
and unwritable by anyone.
.IP \fB~ftp/bin)\fR 10 
Make this directory owned by the superuser and unwritable by
anyone.  The program 
.PN ls(1)
must be present to support the list commands.  This
program should have mode 111.
.IP \fB~ftp/etc)\fR 10 
Make this directory owned by the superuser and unwritable by
anyone.  The files 
.MS passwd 5  
and 
.MS group 5 
must be present for the 
.PN ls
command to work properly.  These files should be mode 444.
.IP \fB~ftp/pub)\fR 10 
Make this directory mode 777 and owned by 
.PN ftp.  
Place the files, which are to be accessible by the
anonymous account, in this directory.
.SH Options
.IP \fB\-d\fR 5
Enables certain debugging messages that are printed by ftpd. 
.NXR "ftpd server" "options"
.IP \fB\-l\fR 5
Logs each ftp session to the
.PN syslog .
.IP \fB\-t\fR 5 
Sends the inactivity timeout period to  
.IR timeout; 
otherwise, the 
.PN ftp 
server will timeout an inactive session after 15 minutes. 
.SH Restrictions
.NXR "ftpd server" "restricted"
Support does not exist for aborting commands.
.PP
The use of an anonymous account is inherently dangerous and should
be avoided when possible.
.PP
The server must run as the superuser
to create sockets with privileged port numbers.  The server maintains
an effective user id of the logged in user, reverting to
the superuser only when binding addresses to sockets.  The
possible security holes have been extensively
scrutinized, but are possibly incomplete.
.SH Files
.TP 15
.PN /etc/ftpusers
Contains the list of unauthorized users
.SH See Also
ftp(1c), services(5), inetd(8c), syslog(8)
.NXE "ftpd server"
