.TH genra 8
.SH Name
genra \- produce distribution RA60 media
.SH Syntax
.B "/etc/genra [-{wv}] [\fIhostname\fP:]\fIproduct_code\fP special"
.SH Description
The 
.PN genra
utility is used to produce RA60 distribution media.  The
utility searches 
.PN /etc/kitcap 
for the 
.I product_code 
(as provided by
the user on the command line), creates a new file system on the
partition defined in the kit description, mounts the disk, transfers
files and subsets as described in the kitcap kit description, uses
.MS sum 1
to verify files for accuracy in transfer, and then unmounts
the file system.  The 
.PN genra 
utility can create multiple directories
on the RA60 for separate products, and can also combine multiple
products into one product, all controlled by 
.PN /etc/kitcap .
.PP
The optional \fIhostname:\fP argument is the 
name of a remote TCP/IP network machine that
contains the kitcap file.  The utility will search 
.PN /etc/kitcap 
on the
remote machine for the 
.I product_code 
and use it for creating the media. 
The colon (:) is a required delimiter for TCP/IP networks, 
and there is no space between the colon and the 
.IR product_code .
For example, if the product code was ULT-2.2-V-BW, and the kitcap file
to be used was on node "mynode", the proper syntax for this option
would be
.EX
			mynode:ULT-2.2-V-BW
.EE
.PP
The 
.I product_code
is a user defined code that is located in 
.PN /etc/kitcap ,
and describes the partition, directories, and subsets, that make up a
kitcap description.  It can be any set of numbers or letters, and is
usually formed in a way to have some meaning as to the product that it
describes.  For example, if the product name is MYPRODUCT and it is
version 1, a proper 
.I product_code 
for that product might be MYP010.
.PP
The 
.B special
argument indicates that the device is a special device such as 
.PN /dev/rra1a .
The actual
partition that the utility will write the files on is defined in the
kitcap description for the 
.I product_code 
that is being used.  Therefore,
it makes no difference what partition is appended to the special device
file used on the command line.
.SH Options
.IP \-w
Write only.  
.IP \-v
Verify only.
.IP
If neither option appears on the command line, then by default, the
utility will write, then verify, the files in the kit descriptor.	
.SH Restrictions
You must be a superuser to run this program.  
If the optional hostname is
used, you must be able to access files on the remote host as superuser.
.SH Files
.TP 15
.PN /dev/ra?a
ra device special files
.TP
.PN /etc/kitcap
Kit descriptor database
.SH See Also
gentapes(1), sum(1), kitcap(5)
