.TH getauth 8 
.SH Name
getauth, setauth, rmauth \- auth database maintenance
.SH Syntax
.B getauth
[\fIusername\fP]
.PP
.B setauth
.PP
.B rmauth
\fIusername\fP
.SH Description
.NXR "getauth command"
.NXR "setauth command"
.NXR "rmauth command"
.NXR "auth database (commands)" "maintenance"
The command
.PN getauth
takes as it's only argument a user name or UID.
If a user name is supplied it is converted to a UID by searching through
.PN /etc/passwd . 
The UID is then used to look up the users entry in the 
.PN /etc/auth 
database.
If an entry is found it is converted to an ASCII string with a syntax
resembling that of the passwd file and printed out as a single line.
If no entry is found nothing is printed and an exit status of `1'
is returned.
.EX
# getauth username
1000:idvidfy8d:1920129:3600:2678400:0e:0:1000:0:00:00
.EE
The first field is the UID of the entry which is used as the key into
the database.  Then follows: the encrypted password,
password modification time, minimum password lifetime,
maximum password lifetime, account mask,
login failure count, audit ID,
audit control, audit mask, and a reserved field.
.PP
If the optional username argument is not supplied to getauth it
will produce an output line for every entry in the auth database.
.PP
The
.PN setauth
command expects one or more lines from the standard input which must be
of a form identical to that produced by the 
.PN getauth 
command.  The 
.PN setauth 
command converts and stores these lines into the 
.PN auth 
database,
one entry per line, replacing any entry already existing for the given
UID.  By piping the output of the 
.PN getauth 
command into the input of the 
.PN setauth
command an expensive NOP can be produced:
.EX
# /usr/etc/sec/getauth | /usr/etc/sec/setauth
.EE
.PP
The
.PN rmauth
command expects exactly one argument, the user name or UID of an
auth entry to be deleted. 
If the entry is found it is erased and deleted.
If it is not found no action is taken and an 
exit status of 1 is returned.
.SH Restrictions
Only the superuser and members of the group
.PN authread
may read information from the auth database.  Only the superuser may
modify the auth database.
.SH Diagnostics
An exit value of 0 indicates a successful operation. An exit status
of 1 indicates the entry was not found on a lookup or 
deletion operation.  Any other exit status indicates an error.
.SH Files
.PN /etc/auth.[pag,dir]
.br
.PN /etc/passwd
.SH See Also
getauthuid(3), getpwent(3), auth(5), edauth(8)
.br
.I "Security Guide for Administrators"
