.\" SCCSID: @(#)getnode.8	8.1	9/11/90
.TH getnode 8 
.SH Name
getnode \- display one or more entries from the nodes database
.SH Syntax
.B /etc/getnode 
[ 
.I node... 
]
.SH Description
.NXR "getnode command"
.NXR "node" "displaying data base entry"
For each given 
.I node
argument, 
.PN getnode 
displays the corresponding node entry (or entries)
from the nodes database.
The nodes database is the one used by DECnet.
If you do not specify any 
.I node 
argument(s), all of the entries in the nodes database are displayed.
.PP
The
.I node 
is either the node address or 
the node name for each node entry that you want to display.  
(Note that you 
can specify more than one 
.I node 
argument in a single command.)
.PP
A node address is a decimal integer in the range of 1 to 1023 for 
single area networks, or has the format
.I a.n 
for multiarea networks, where 
.I a
is the network area number (a decimal integer in the range of 2 to 63) 
and 
.I n
is the node number (a decimal integer in the range of 1 to 
1023).  
.PP
A node name can be from 1 to 6 
alphanumeric characters, including at least 1 alphabetic character.
.SH Examples
.NXR(e) "node" "displaying data base entry"
.EX
# /etc/getnode 44.70 mynode <RET>
.EE
This command displays the entries in the nodes database
for nodes 44.70 and mynode.
.EX
# /etc/getnode <RET>
.EE
This command displays all of the entries in the nodes database. 
.EX
# /etc/getnode lttwi <RET>
.EE
This command displays the entry in the nodes database for node lttwi.
.SH See Also
addnode(8), ccr(8), load(8), mop_mom(8), remnode(8), trigger(8)
.br
.I "Guide to Ethernet Communication Servers"
