./" new manpage created for FT2 of V4.0 - 20 dec, 89  (JM)
./"
.TH hesupd 8
.SH Name
hesupd \- Hesiod update daemon for modifying BIND/Hesiod passwords
.SH Syntax
.PN /usr/etc/hesupd
.SH Description
.NXR "hesupd" "Hesiod update daemon"
The Hesiod update daemon, 
.PN /usr/etc/hesupd , 
is a server that 
handles password change requests from the 
.PN passwd 
command and is run
only on the BIND/Hesiod primary server serving the 
password database.  The daemon changes the password entries on
the BIND/Hesiod primary server.  
.PP
The primary server is
identified by the host name alias, bindmaster, which must
exist on the server's host entry in the hosts database.  The
bindsetup command adds the host name alias, bindmaster
to the 
.PN /var/dss/namedb/src/hosts 
file if it does not already
exist.
.PP
This daemon is not run by default, nor can it be started up
from the 
.PN inetd 
daemon.  If you want to enable remote password
updating for BIND/Hesiod, put an entry for 
.PN hesupd 
in the 
.PN /etc/rc.local 
file of the host serving as the
primary server for the BIND/Hesiod 
.PN passwd 
file.  
You can add the startup
lines for 
.PN hesupd 
to 
.PN /etc/rc.local 
by running 
the 
.PN bindsetup 
command.
.PP
Hesiod keeps a log file, 
.PN /var/adm/hesupd.log , 
which records successful
and unsuccessful password changes by uid.
.SH Examples
This following example shows lines you can add to 
.PN /etc/rc.local 
in order to
start the Hesiod update daemon at boot time.
.EX
   [ \-f /usr/etc/hesupd ] && {
      /usr/etc/hesupd; echo \-n ' hesupd' >/dev/console
   }
.EE
.SH Files
.TP 35
.PN /etc/rc.local
Startup commands pertinent to a specific system
.sp 6p
.TP 35
.PN /var/adm/hesupd.log     
Log of password changes
.sp 
.TP 35
Default BIND Files:
.TP 35
.PN /var/dss/namedb/src/passwd  
BIND/Hesiod passwd file
.TP 35
.PN /var/dss/namedb/src/hosts   
BIND hosts file
.SH See Also
bindsetup(8), passwd(1)  
.br  
.I Guide to the BIND/Hesiod Service
