.\" SCCSID: @(#)inetd.8c	8.1	9/11/90
.TH inetd 8c
.SH Name
inetd \- internet service daemon
.SH Syntax
.B /etc/inetd
[
.B \-d
] [
.I configfile
.B ]
.SH Description
.NXR "inetd server daemon"
.NXR "Internet service daemon"
The
.PN inetd
daemon is the listener daemon for 
most of the internet service functions.
.PP
When
.PN inetd
is started, it reads the configuration file specified
(\fIconfigfile\fR) and opens a socket
for each specified service.  
.PP
When
.PN inetd
receives a connection on a stream socket or a packet on
a datagram socket, then 
.PN inetd
invokes the server specified in the
configuration file to service the request.  The server
is given a socket descriptor of 0 for the service
requested.
The
.I configfile
is the configuration file specifying the services requiring
the
.PN inetd
daemon's services.
If a configuration file is not
specified, then
.PN inetd
uses the default file,
.PN /etc/inetd.conf .
The format of this file is described in
.MS inetd.conf 5 .
The configuration file is reread whenever
.PN inetd
receives a hangup signal.
.SH Options
.IP \fB\-d\fR 0.3i
Open all sockets with the debug option.  
The socket will be passed to the server with debug enabled.
.SH Restrictions
The
.PN inetd
daemon can only handle a limited number of services at any one
time.  This number is related to the maximum number of
file descriptors that a process can have.  If many 
services are needed, you should run multiple copies of
.PN inetd ,
each with its own individual configuration file.
.SH Files
.PN /etc/inetd.conf
.SH See Also
inetd.conf(5)
