.TH kdb_edit 8krb
.SH Name
kdb_edit \- Kerberos database editing utility
.SH Syntax
\fB/var/dss/kerberos/bin/kdb_edit\fP [\fI-n\fP]
.SH Description
.NXR "Kerberos routines" "kdb_edit"
You use the
.PN kdb_edit 
command to create or change principals stored in the Kerberos
database.  When you invoke \f(CWkdb_edit\fP,
the command prompts you for the Kerberos database master key and verifies 
that the key is
the same as the master key of the Kerberos database.  If the \fI-n\fP 
option is used,
the key is fetched from the master key file.
.PP
Once the master key is verified, \f(CWkdb_edit\fP begins a loop that
prompts you for the principal and instance name to modify. If
\f(CWkdb_edit\fP does not find an entry, you can create one. Once
\f(CWkdb_edit\fP finds or creates an entry, you can set the password,
expiration date, maximum ticket lifetime, and attributes of a principal.
.PP
The \f(CWkdb_edit\fP command displays, in brackets, the default values for the
expiration dates, maximum ticket lifetimes, and attributes.
You can select any default by pressing the return key. The
\f(CWkdb_edit\fP command indicates that you have successfully created
or changed an entry by displaying the message, "Edit O.K."
.PP
There is no default password for a principal.  However, if you enter RANDOM as
the password for a principal, \f(CWkdb_edit\fP selects a random Data
Encryption Standard (DES) key for the principal.
.PP
Whenever the 
.PN ndbm
Kerberos database is changed by
.PN kdb_edit ,
the modification time of 
.PN /var/dss/kerberos/dbase/principal.ok
is updated.  The
.PN principal.ok
file indicates the age of the database.
.SH Options
.TP 7
.B \-n
If you specify the command with
the \fI-n\fP option, \f(CWkdb_edit\fP fetches the key from the master
key file.
.SH Files
.TP
.PN /var/dss/kerberos/dbase/principal.pag
.TP
.PN /var/dss/kerberos/dbase/principal.dir
.TP
.PN /var/dss/kerberos/dbase/principal.ok
.SH See Also
kdb_init(8krb), kstash(8krb), kdb_util(8krb), kdb_destroy(8krb) 
