.TH kinit 8krb
.SH Name
kinit \- Kerberos login utility
.SH Syntax
.B /usr/bin/kinit
[
.B \-irv
]
.SH Description
.NXR "Kerberos routines" "kinit"
You use the
.PN kinit
command to log into the Kerberos authentication and authorization
system. 
You also use the 
.PN kinit
command when your original tickets have expired.
When you use the 
.PN kinit
command without options, the utility prompts for a username and a Kerberos
password and attempts to authenticate to the local Kerberos
server.
.PP
If Kerberos authenticates you correctly,
.PN kinit
retrieves your initial ticket and 
puts it in the ticket file specified
by the KRBTKFILE environment variable.  If you have not defined this
variable, the ticket is 
stored in the file
.PN /var/dss/kerberos/tkt/tkt\[\fIuid\fP] .
.PP
Make sure you use the 
.PN kdestroy(8krb) 
command to destroy any active tickets before ending your login
session.  You may want to put the 
.PN kdestroy 
command in a 
.PN \&.logout
file so that all tickets are destroyed
automatically when you log out.
Only registered Kerberos users can use the Kerberos
system.
.SH Options
.TP 7
.B \-i
Causes
.PN kinit
to prompt you for a Kerberos instance.
.TP
.B \-r
Causes
.PN kinit
to prompt you for a Kerberos realm.  This option lets you authenticate
yourself with a remote Kerberos server.
.TP
.B \-v
Initiates verbose mode.   This causes
.PN kinit
to print the name of the ticket file used and a status message
indicating the success or failure of your login attempt.
.SH Restrictions
Although user-level authentication is not supported,
.PN kinit
is useful for testing the installation of Kerberos functionality,
by determining if a newly installed principal can obtain a
ticket-granting ticket.  For example, to determine if the
.PN named
running on machine X can obtain its ticket-granting ticket,
you can run
.PN kinit ,
input the principal name,
.PN named , 
the instance, X, and the password of
.PN named .
If
.PN kinit
succeeds, then Kerberos is correctly installed on machine X.
.PP
The
.PN \-r
option has not been fully implemented.
.SH Files
.TP
.PN /var/dss/kerberos/tkt/tkt\[\fIuid\fP]
.SH See Also
kdestroy(8krb), klist(8krb)
