.TH la75of 8
.SH Name
la75of \- LA75 dot matrix printer filter
.SH Syntax
/usr/lib/lpdfilters/la75of [\fB\-c\fP] [\fB\-n\fP\fIlogin\fP]
[\fB\-h\fP\fIhost\fP] [\fB\-w\fP\fIwidth\fP]
[\fB\-l\fP\fInum\fP] [\fB\-i\fP\fIindent\fP]  [\fBaccounting file\fP]
.SH Description
The 
.PN la75of
filters text data destined for LA75 compact 
dot matrix printers. It handles the device dependencies of 
the printer and performs accounting functions. 
As each job completes, the filter writes the accounting records to the 
file specified by the \fBaf\fP field in 
.PN /etc/printcap .
The
.PN la75of
can handle plain ASCII files as well as files that have been preprocessed 
by nroff. The filter correctly handles nroff control sequences for underlining,
superscripting and subscripting.
.PP
You can specify the 
.PN la75of
filter in both the \fBof\fP and the \fBif\fP fields of the
.PN /etc/printcap
file.
For further information, see 
.MS printcap 5 .
When you specify both fields, the \fBof\fP filter prints the
banner page only; when \fBof\fP stops, 
the \fBif\fP filter gains access to the
printer and maintains accounting information.
.PP
If you specify the \fBof\fP field only, the filter prints the
banner page then stops and restarts to maintain accounting information.
.PP
If you specify the \fBif\fP field only, the banner page is sent 
directly to
the printer. This is not a problem for most impact printers.
.PP
For a more detailed discussion on filters see the article,
``Line Printer Spooler Manual'' in the 
\fIULTRIX Supplementary Documents, Volume 2: Programmer\fP.
.PP
.SH Options
The arguments passed to the filter depend on its use.
The \fBof\fP filter is called with the following arguments:
.IP "la75of \fB\-w\fP\fIwidth\fP \fB\-l\fP\fIlength\fP"
The \fIwidth\fP and \fIlength\fP values come from the
\fBpw\fP and \fBpl\fP fields in the 
.PN /etc/printcap
database. The \fBif\fP (or restarted \fBof\fP)
filter is passed the following arguments:
.IP " la75of \fB\-c\fP \fB\-n\fP\fIlogin\fP \fB\-h\fP\fIhost\fP \fB\-w\fP\fIwidth\fP \fB\-l\fP\fInum\fP \fB\-i\fP\fIindent\fP  \fBaccounting file\fP"
The \fB\-c\fP flag is optional and is supplied only when control characters 
are to be printed. That is, when
the \fB\-l\fP option of
.MS lpr 1
is used to print the file. The \fB\-w\fP and \fB\-l\fP arguments are 
the same as for the \fBof\fP filter but might
have different values if the \fB\-w\fP and/or
\fB\-z\fP options of 
.MS lpr 1
were used to print the file.  The \fB\-n\fP and \fB\-h\fP arguments 
specify the login name and host name of the job owner.
These arguments are used to record
accounting information. 
The \fB\-i\fP option specifies 
the amount of indentation to be used.
The last argument is the name of the accounting file 
specified from the \fBaf\fP field in the 
.PN /etc/printcap 
database.
.SH Diagnostics
The \fBlf\fP field (default /dev/null) in the
.PN /etc/printcap
database specifies the error logging file name.
.SH Files
.TP 15
.PN /etc/printcap
Printer capabilities database
.br
.TP
.PN /dev/lp?
.SH See Also
lpr(1), pr(1), printcap(5), lpd(8), MAKEDEV(8), pac(8)
.br
``Line Printer Spooler Manual,''
.I "ULTRIX Supplementary Documents, Volume 2: Programmer"
