.TH lcp 8 
.SH Name
lcp \- Local Area Transport server (LAT) control program
.SH Syntax
.B /etc/lcp
[
.I options
]
.SH Description
.NXR "lcp command"
.NXS "Local Area Transport protocol" "LAT protocol"
.NXR "LAT protocol"
.NXR "lcp command" "parameters"
.NXAM "lcp command" "lta pseudoterminal driver"
The LAT control program,
.PN lcp ,
provides the essential functions
to control and manage LAT terminal service. 
It allows you to
start and stop LAT service, modify and display configuration
characteristics, and
display and set error counters to zero.
The following command is usually included in the
.PN /etc/rc.local 
file to automatically restart LAT service during reboot:
.EX
lcp \-s 
.EE
.SH Options
The following options can be set with 
.PN lcp :
.TP 15
.B \-s
Starts LAT service. Enables connections from LAT terminal servers to 
host. If LAT parameters have not been set, they take on default values
specified in the 
.PN \-r 
option. 
.TP 15
.B \-r
Resets LAT parameters to the following default values:
.br
multicast timer: 30 seconds
.br
nodename: hostname
.br
node description: ``ULTRIX''
.br
servicename: hostname
.br
service description: ``ULTRIX LAT SERVICE''
.br
.TP 15
.B \-g
Sets groups to \fIgrp1\fR, \fIgrp2\fR, ... , \fIgrpn\fR.
A number or string of numbers can be used to set groups.
The numbers used for each group must be less than or equal to 255.
For example:
.EX
lcp \-g 128 

or

lcp \-g 56,5,102,10,20,30,40,50,60,...,
110,150,200,210,255
.EE
A string of groups must be
separated by commas with no spaces.  If the string exceeds the 
width of the screen it must wrap over to the following line. 
You cannot use a backslash (\\) or a carriage return
to break a string.
.TP 15 
.B \-h	
Sets a list of ttys (next argument) as being 
available only for host-initiated connections.  
A string of ttys must be
separated by commas with no spaces.  If the string exceeds the 
width of the screen, it must wrap over to the following line. 
You cannot use a backslash (\\) or a carriage return
to break a string.
Each tty can optionally be associated
with a specific port on a specific terminal
server by following the tty name by the name 
of the server and port, separated by colons.
For example, the following command
associates tty15 with the port named "PORT7"
on the terminal server named "LAT_SERVER".
.EX 	
/etc/lcp \-h /dev/tty15:LAT_SERVER:PORT7
.EE
.TP 15 
\-H	
Sets a list of ttys (next argument) as being 
available only for terminal server initiated 
connections. 
A string of ttys must be
separated by commas with no spaces.  If the string exceeds the 
width of the screen it must wrap over to the following line. 
You cannot use a backslash (\\) or a carriage return
to break a string.  
.TP 15
.B \-m    
Sets multicast transmission timer to the specified time
(next argument).
A node advertises its presence
to the LAT servers
by sending out a multicast message over the network. The
.I time 
variable sets the interval between transmissions. Valid
intervals range from 10 to 255 seconds, with a default of 30 seconds.
.TP 15
.B \-n    
Sets node to the specified name (next argument).
Specifies the name that your node will be
known by. Although the Terminal Server keeps track of nodes without an
associated nodename, a LAT node must have a nodename in order for a
terminal user to establish a connection. A node can have a list of
associated services and service ratings, specified 
by up to 16 alphanumeric
characters. Dollar ($) and underscore (_) characters are valid, but
leading underscores and trailing colons are removed. The nodename must
be unique on the Ethernet. The Terminal Server displays the nodename as
a service if you type the 
.PN "show services"
command, and as a node if you type the 
.PN "show nodes"
command. The nodename default is the hostname.
.TP 15
.B \-N    
Sets node description to the specified message (next
argument).
The node description allows for a
short message to 
be displayed to LAT users,
providing news or additional node information.
Specify up to 64 alphanumeric characters. 
Dollar ($) and underscore (_) characters are valid, but
leading underscores and trailing colons are removed.
Leading ampersands (&) are not
allowed. The default is ``ULTRIX''.
You must enclose the string in double quotation marks (" ") if it
contains one or more spaces. 
.TP 15
.B \-v	
A service node advertises one or more services.  By default 
the single service offered is the node name.  For example, node 
.PN microv 
by default offers service 
.PN microv .  
The 
.PN \-v 
option lets you change this default.  It also lets
you cause the service node to advertise more 
than one service and associate a given set of 
LAT ttys with each service by appending a list of 
minor device numbers to the service name. For 
example, the following command causes the node to 
offer two additional services, 
"SERV1" and "SERV2": 
.EX
/etc/lcp \-v microv \-v SERV1:/dev/tty15,/dev/tty16\\ 
-v SERV2:/dev/tty17,/dev/tty18,/dev/tty19
.EE 
Devices tty15 and tty16 are used for SERV1.  
Devices tty17, tty18, and tty19 are used for SERV2.  
All other LAT ttys are used for the 
default service, 
.PN microv . 
.PP
Note that normal LAT service is always 
associated with the first 
.PN \-v 
option to appear.  Therefore, if you wish to advertise
additional services you must define the service name
for normal lat, even if you still want the default
service name, as in the above example.
.PP
Every time you issue a new lcp command with the 
.PN \-v 
option, the new set of services that you define completely replaces any 
previously defined services.  To discontinue a previously
defined service, reissue lcp with the 
.PN \-v 
option without specifying that service.  
For example, to discontinue the
SERV1 service, use the following command:
.EX
/etc/lcp \-v microv \\
-v SERV2:dev/tty17,dev/tty18,dev/tty19
.EE
.RE
.TP 15 
.B \-V	
Sets service description to specified message (next argument).  
It can be up to 64 characters in length.  You must enclose the
string in double quotation marks (" ") if it contains
one or more spaces.  If you are defining
multiple services a given description 
applies to the service name defined by the 
corresponding 
.PN \-v 
option (the first 
.PN \-V 
option corresponds to the first 
.PN \-v 
option, and so on). For
example, the following command 
associates the description "ULTRIX LAT service"
with the service name 
.PN microv
and description
"service 1" with service name "SERV1".
.EX 
/etc/lcp \-v microv \-v SERV1:dev/tty15,dev/tty16\\  
\-V "ULTRIX LAT service" \-V "service 1"
.EE
.TP 15
.B \-t	  
Stops LAT service. Disable connections from LAT terminal servers to 
host.
.TP 15
.B \-d    
Displays LAT characteristics. Shows the LAT parameters at their current
setting. The following is an example of the output of the 
.PN \-d 
option:
.EX
% /etc/lcp \-d
 
Node name: NODE 	Service name: NODE
Node Identification: ULTRIX LAT service
Service Identification: ULTRIX
Groups: 0
Multicast timer: 30 seconds
LAT version: 5 eco: 0  LAT Protocol is active
.EE
.TP 15
.B \-z    
Reinitializes (zeroes out) error counters.
To test system performance over a period of
time, zero the counters and observe the information that accumulates.
.TP 15
.B \-c    
Displays error counters in vertical format.  If an
interval also is specified (next argument), displays
error counters in horizontal format every interval seconds.
The following is an example of the output of the 
.PN \-c 
option:
.EX
% /etc/lcp \-c
67413 Frames received (rcv)
   32 Duplicate frames received (rcvdup)
89005 Frames transmitted (xmit)
   62 Retransmissions (rexmit)
    0 Illegal messages received (illmesg)
    0 Illegal slots received (illslots)
.EE
.TP 15
.B interval 
Continuously displays error counters in horizontal format,
waiting 
.I interval
seconds between each iteration. Quit by sending a keyboard interrupt.
The following is an example of the output of the interval
option: 
.EX
% /etc/lcp 10
rcv     rcvdup  xmit    rexmit  illmesg  illslots
67474   32      89066   62      0        0
67483   32      89067   62      0        0
67491   32      89073   62      0        0
67502   32      89089   62      0        0
.EE
.TP 15 
.B \-p	
Shows which LAT server/port combination a
specific LAT tty device is connected to.
For example the following command
displays which terminal server and port 
are associated with tty15.
.EX		
/etc/lcp \-p /dev/tty15
.EE 
.SH Restrictions
The service and node names cannot be more than 16 characters long.
.PP
The user must have read and write access to a terminal.
.SH Error Counters
.NXR "lcp command" "error counter list"
The meaning of each error counter is explained below.
.IP \fBrcv\fR 15
Number of Ethernet LAT messages
.br
.IP \fBrcvdup\fR 15
Number of duplicate messages received (normally
indicates a system slowdown)
.br
.IP \fBxmit\fR 15
Number of transmitted Ethernet LAT messages
.br
.IP \fBrexmit\fR 15
Number of transmit frames that are sent more than once
.br
.IP \fBillmesg\fR 15
Number of bad messages flagged by the LAT driver
.IP \fBillslots\fR 15
Number of bad transmission slots flagged by the driver
.SH Diagnostics
Messages indicating that user is not privileged or that LAT
service is not loaded
.SH Files
.TP
.PN /etc/ttys
.TP
.PN /etc/rc.local
.SH See Also
lta(4), ttys(5) 
