.TH lg02of 8
.SH Name
lg02of \- LG02 Matrix Line Printer
.SH Syntax
/usr/lib/lpdfilters/lg02of [\fB\-c\fP] [\fB\-n\fP\fIlogin\fP] [\fB\-h\fP\fIhost\fP] [\fB\-w\fP\fIwidth\fP] [\fB\-l\fP\fInum\fP] [\fB\-i\fP\fIindent\fP]  [\fBaccounting file\fP]
.SH Description
The 
.PN lg02of
filter is used to filter text data destined for the LG02 line printer.
The filter handles the device dependencies of the printers and performs
accounting functions. 
Accounting records are written to the file specified by
the \fBaf\fP field in 
.PN /etc/printcap 
at the time of completion for each job.
.PP
The filter can handle plain ASCII files and files that
have been preprocessed by nroff.
The 
.PN lg02of 
filter translates nroff control sequences for underlining, superscripting and
subscripting into the correct LG02 control sequences.
.PP
The 
.PN lg02of
filter can be the specified filter in both
the \fBof\fP and the \fBif\fP fields in the
.PN /etc/printcap
file. 
For further information, see 
.MS printcap 5 .
When both fields are specified the \fBof\fP filter is used only
to print the banner page.  It is then stopped to allow
the \fBif\fP filter access to the printer. The
\fBif\fP filter maintains accounting information.
.PP
If the \fBof\fP field is the only one specified the filter is used to print the
banner page.  It is then stopped and restarted.
This allows the \fBof\fP filter to be
used to maintain accounting information.
.PP
If the \fBif\fP field is the only one specified the
banner page will be sent directly to
the printer. If the printer has been left in an undetermined
state the banner page may not
print correctly.
.PP
The best results will be obtained when the filter is specified
in both the \fBof\fP and \fBif\fP fields.
For a more detailed discussion on filters see the 
``Line Printer Spooler Manual'' in the 
.I "ULTRIX Supplementary Documents, Volume 2: Programmer."
.PP
.SH Options
The arguments passed to the filter depend on its use.
The \fBof\fP filter is called with the
following arguments:
.IP "lg02of \fB\-w\fP\fIwidth\fP \fB\-l\fP\fIlength\fP"
The \fIwidth and length\fP values come from the 
\fBpw\fP and \fBpl\fP fields in the 
.PN /etc/printcap
database. The \fBif\fR (or restarted of) filter is passed the following arguments:
.IP " lg02of \fB\-c\fP \fB\-n\fP\fIlogin\fP \fB\-h\fP\fIhost\fP \fB\-w\fP\fIwidth\fP \fB\-l\fP\fInum\fP \fB\-i\fP\fIindent\fP  \fBaccounting file\fP"
The \fB\-c\fP flag is optional, and supplied only when control
characters are to be printed, that is, when
the \fB\-l\fP option of 
.MS lpr 1
is used to print the file. The \fB\-w\fP and \fB\-l\fP arguments are 
the same as for the \fBof\fP filter, however,
they may have different values if the \fB\-w\fP and/or
\fB\-z\fP options of 
.MS lpr 1
were used to print the file.
If the value of the width is greater than
80 the job will be printed in landscape mode with a
slightly smaller font. The length of the page is
assumed to be 66 regardless of the length specified.
The \fB\-n\fP and \fB\-h\fP arguments 
specify the login name and host name of the job owner.
These arguments are used to record
accounting information. The \fB\-i\fP option specifies 
the amount of indentation to be used. The last argument is the name of the 
accounting file 
specified from the \fBaf\fP field in the 
.PN /etc/printcap 
database.
.SH Diagnostics
Are sent to wherever 
.PN /etc/printcap
specifies with the \fBlf\fP field.
.SH Files
.PN /etc/printcap
.br
.PN /dev/lp?
.SH See Also
lpr(1), pr(1), printcap(5), lpd(8), MAKEDEV(8), pac(8)
.br
``Line Printer Spooler Manual,''
.I "ULTRIX Supplementary Documents, Volume 2: Programmer"
