.\" V4.0 source updated for V4.Titanium 
.\"
.\" Updated on 26.10.90 by Karen Campbell, OSCR-Europe
.\"
.\" Submitted for FT 9-Nov-90.
.\"
.\" Print this document on a PostScript printer using the command line
.\"     tbl filename | ditroff \-Tps \-man | devps | lpr
.\"
.TH ln03rof 8
.SH Name
ln03rof, ln03rof_isolatin1, ln03rof_decmcs \- LN03R ASCII to
PostScript translation filters
.SH Syntax
.B /usr/lib/lpdfilters/ln03rof [\fB\-c\fP] [\fB\-n\fP\fIlogin\fP] [\fB\-h\fP
\fIhost\fP] [\fB\-w\fP\fIwidth\fP] [\fB\-l\fP\fInum\fP] [\fB\-i\fP\fIindent\fP]  [\fIaccounting file\fP]
.SH Description
The 
.PN ln03rof
filter translates ASCII to PostScript,
handles the device dependencies of a PostScript printer
and performs some accounting functions. 
PostScript printers print documents formatted in
the PostScript Page Description Language only.
.NXR "translation filters"
.PP
The
.PN ln03rof_isolatin1
and
.PN ln03rof_decmcs
filters are alternatives to
.PN ln03rof ,
and affect how ASCII documents are printed.
They cause the encoding vectors for ISO Latin1 or DEC MCS to be used
instead of the Adobe Standard Encoding Vector described in the 
.I "LN03R PostScript Programmers Supplement."
The
.PN ln03rof
filter uses idle cycles to cache the fonts when accessed by the standard
encoding vector.
The cached fonts cannot be used by
.PN ln03rof_isolatin1
or
.PN ln03rof_decmcs
which means that small jobs are slowed down.
.PP
The 
.PN ln03rof
filter is transparent to documents already formatted in PostScript.  The filter
assumes that all other documents are plain ASCII and
translates them into PostScript. 
The decision to translate is based on the first two characters
in the document. If they are `\fB%!\fP',
the filter assumes the document
has already been formatted in PostScript.
If the first two characters are not `\fB%!\fP', the 
filter assumes that the document is plain ASCII and translates it into 
PostScript.
The 
.PN ln03rof
filter ensures that the printer receives documents formatted in PostScript
only.
The 
.PN ln03rof
filter maintains accounting information only for documents that it translates. 
You specify the accounting file with the \fBaf\fR 
field in the
.PN /etc/printcap
file.  For further information, see 
.MS printcap 5 .
.PP
You can specify the 
.PN ln03rof
filter in both the \fBof\fR and the \fBif\fR fields of the
.PN /etc/printcap
file. The specification of the filter in the 
.PN /etc/printcap
file determines how the 
.MS lpr 1
command affects the printed document. For example: 
.IP \(bu 4
If you specify it in the \fBof\fP field only and do not suppress banner pages,
the filter \fIalways\fP translates the document into PostScript.
.IP \(bu 4
If you specify it in the \fBif\fP field and do not suppress banner pages,
the document does not print.  In this case, the banner is sent directly
to the printer. Since the banner is not formatted in PostScript,
the printer cannot print the document and aborts the job. 
.IP \(bu 4
If you suppress the banner by including the \fBsh\fP
field in 
.PN /etc/printcap
or by printing the file using the 
.MS lpr 1
with the \fB\-h\fP option,
the document prints correctly. 
.IP \(bu 4
You can obtain the best results by specifying the filter in both
the \fBof\fP and \fBif\fP fields.
.PP
The ASCII data type for PrintServer software uses the 
.PN ln03rof
filter.
For more information about how the PostScript translator is invoked, see
.MS xlator_call 8 .
.PP
The filter sets a landscape print mode with a smaller font if the width is
greater than 80 columns.
The default width for the
.PN :pw#:
entry in the
.PN /etc/printcap
file is 132.  To print using portrait mode, modify the
.PN /etc/printcap
file to include the following two entries:
.EX
:pl#66:\\
:pw#80:\\
.EE
When printing in portrait mode, if the job page length is greater than 66
a smaller font is used.  
.PP
For a more detailed discussion on filters see the
``Line Printer Spooler Manual'' in the \"TITLE_EXEMPT\"
\fISupplementary Documents, Volume 2: Programmer\fP.
.SH Options
The arguments passed to the filter depend on its use.
.PP
The \fBof\fP filter is called with the following arguments:
.IP \fB\-l\fIlength\fR .3i
Specify \fIlength\fR values from the \fBpl\fP field in the
.PN /etc/printcap
file .
.IP \fB\-w\fIwidth\fR .3i  
Specify \fIwidth\fP values from the \fBpw\fP field in the
.PN /etc/printcap
file.
.PP
The \fBif\fP filter is passed the following arguments:
.IP \fB\-c\fR .3i
Print control characters when you use the \fB\-l\fP option of 
.MS lpr 1
to print the file. 
(Optional flag).
.IP \fB\-h\fIhost\fR .3i
Specify the host name of the job owner. 
(Used to record accounting information).  
.IP \fB\-i\fIindent\fR .3i
Specify the amount of indentation to be used. 
The last argument is the name of the accounting file 
specified from the \fBaf\fP field in the 
.PN /etc/printcap
file. 
.IP \fB\-l\fIlength\fR .3i 
Specify \fIlength\fR value from the \fBpl\fR field in the
.PN /etc/printcap
file as it does with the \fBof\fR filter.
Arguments may have different values if the \fB\-w\fP and/or
\fB\-z\fP options of 
.MS lpr 1
were used to print the file. 
.IP \fB\-n\fIlogin\fR .3i 
Specify the login name of the job owner.
(Used to record accounting information).
.IP \fB\-w\fIwidth\fR .3i
Specify \fIwidth\fR value from the \fBpw\fR field in the 
.PN /etc/printcap
file as it does with the \fBof\fR filter.
Arguments may have different values if the \fB\-w\fP and/or
\fB\-z\fP options of
.MS lpr 1
were used to print the file.
These arguments only affect documents that are translated from ASCII 
to PostScript.
.SH Diagnostics
The \fBlf\fP field (default /dev/null) in the 
.PN /etc/printcap
file specifies the error 
logging file name.
.SH Files
.TP 15
.PN /etc/printcap
Printer capabilities database.
.TP
.PN /usr/lib/lpdfilters/xlator_call
Shell script to invoke PostScript translators.
.SH See Also
lpr(1), pr(1), printcap(5), lpd(8), MAKEDEV(8), pac(8), xlator_call(8)
.br
"Line Printer Spooler Manual", \"TITLE_EXEMPT\"
\fISupplementary Documents, Volume 2: Programmer\fP
