.\" SCCSID: @(#)load.8	8.1	9/11/90
.TH load 8 
.SH Name
load \- down-line load software to a target node
.SH Syntax 
.B /etc/load 
[
.I node
]
.SH Description
.NXR "load command"
.NXA "load command" "addnode command"
.NXR "node" "down-line loading"
The 
.PN load 
command loads software to an unattended target node.
The target node is loaded by the host that executes the 
.PN load 
command. 
.PP
The 
.PN load 
command requires the identification of the service circuit over
which the load is performed, the Ethernet 
hardware address of the target node, and the service password needed 
to gain access to the target.  This information is included in 
the nodes database entry for the target node.  A node entry is 
defined with the 
.PN addnode 
command.  For further information, see 
.MS addnode 8 .
The
.I node
is the name or address of the target node.  A node name
consists of from one to six alphanumeric characters.
For single networks, a node address consists of a 
decimal integer (1-1023).  For multiple networks, a
node address consist of two decimal integers (n.n), 
where the first indicates the network number (1-63), 
and the second indicates the node address (1-1023).
.SH Options
.TP 5
.B \-p
Uses the specified service and password (next arguments) 
in accessing the target node.
You can omit a target node's service and password from the nodes
database for security reasons, but you must then specify the service
and password in the command line by using the
.PN \-p
option.
.SH Examples
.EX
# /etc/load bangor \-p 130fe
.EE
This command causes node 
.PN bangor 
to be loaded by the ULTRIX host node 
executing the command.  The ULTRIX host uses the load files 
specified in the nodes database entry for node 
.PN bangor 
to perform the load.
.SH See Also
addnode(8), ccr(8), getnode(8), mop_mom(8), remnode(8), trigger(8)
.br
.I "Guide to Local Area Transport Servers"
