.TH lpf 8
.SH Name
lpf \- general purpose line printer filter
.SH Syntax
/usr/lib/lpdfilters/lpf [\fB\-c\fP] [\fB\-n\fP\fIlogin\fP] [\fB\-h\fP\fIhost\fP] [\fB\-w\fP\fIwidth\fP] [\fB\-l\fP\fInum\fP] [\fB\-i\fP\fIindent\fP]  [\fBaccounting file\fP]
.SH Description
The 
.PN lpf
filter handles text data destined for impact printers: LP25, LP26, LP27,
LA50, LA75, LA100, LA120, LA210, LG01.
The filter regulates the device dependencies of the printers and
performs accounting functions. 
When the print job is done, 
.PN lpf
writes accounting records to the file specified by
the \fBaf\fP field in /etc/printcap.
.PP
The filter can handle plain ASCII files as well as files that have been
preprocessed by nroff. 
However, it ignores escape sequences requesting superscripting and subscripting.
.PP
You can specify the 
.PN lpf
filter in both the \fBof\fP and the \fBif\fP fields of the
.PN /etc/printcap
file. 
For further information, see 
.MS printcap 5 .
When you specify both fields, the \fBof\fP filter 
prints the banner page only, then stops.  The \fBif\fP filter then
gains access to the printer. The
\fBif\fP filter maintains accounting information.
.PP
If you specify the \fBof\fP field only, it prints the
banner page then stops and restarts to maintain accounting information.
.PP
If you specify the \fBif\fP field only, it sends the banner page directly to
the printer.  This is not a problem for most impact printers.
.PP
For a more detailed discussion on filters see the 
``Line Printer Spooler Manual'' in the
.I "ULTRIX Supplementary Documents, Volume 2: Programmer."
.PP
.PP OPTIONS
The arguments passed to the filter depend on its use.
The \fBof\fP filter is called with the
following arguments:
.IP "lpf \fB\-w\fP\fIwidth\fP \fB\-l\fP\fIlength\fP"
The \fIwidth\fP and \fIlength\fP values come from the \fBpw\fP
and \fBpl\fP fields in the 
.PN /etc/printcap
database. The \fBif\fP (or restart \fBof\fP) filter is passed
the following arguments:
.IP "lpf \fB\-c\fP \fB\-n\fP\fIlogin\fP \fB\-h\fP\fIhost\fP \fB\-w\fP\fIwidth\fP \fB\-l\fP\fInum\fP \fB\-i\fP\fIindent\fP  \fBaccounting file\fP"
.PP
The \fB\-c\fP flag is optional and supplied only when control characters 
are to be printed; when the \fB\-l\fP option of 
.MS lpr 1
is used to print the file. The \fB\-w\fP and \fB\-l\fP arguments are 
the same as for the \fBof\fP filter, however, they may have
different values if the \fB\-w\fP and/or
\fB\-z\fP options of 
.MS lpr 1
were used to print the file.  The \fB\-n\fP and \fB\-h\fP arguments 
specify the login name and host name of the job owner. These
arguments are used to record
accounting information. The \fB\-i\fP option specifies 
the amount of indentation to be used. The last argument is
the name of the accounting file 
specified from the \fBaf\fP field in the 
.PN /etc/printcap
database.
.SH Diagnostics
The \fBlf\fP field (default /dev/null) in the 
.PN /etc/printcap 
database specifies error logging file name.
.SH Files
.TP 15
.PN /etc/printcap
Printer capabilities database
.TP
.PN /dev/lp?
.SH See Also
lpr(1), pr(1), printcap(5), lpd(8), MAKEDEV(8), pac(8)
.br
``Line Printer Spooler Manual,''
.I "ULTRIX Supplementary Documents, Volume 2: Programmer"
