.\" SCCSID: @(#)mount.8cdfs	7.1	4/26/90
.TH mount 8cdfs
.SH Name
mount, umount \- mount and unmount a ISO 9660 (CD-ROM) File System (CDFS)
.SH Syntax
.B /etc/mount \-t cdfs [
.B \-r
.B \-o 
.I options 
.B ] 
.I device directory
.PP
.B /etc/umount [
.B \-v ] 
.I directory
.SH Description
.NXR "mount command (CDFS)"
.NXR "umount command (CDFS)"
.NXR "CDFS file system" 
.NXR "file system"
The
.PN mount
command allows you to mount an ISO 9660 or High Sierra (HSG) formatted 
file system onto a directory.
Once a file system or directory has been mounted,
it is treated as a file system.
.PP
The argument
.I device 
must refer to a block special file.
.PP
The file
.I directory
must exist and must be a directory.
It becomes the name of the newly mounted file system.
.PP
General users can mount file systems with certain restrictions
in addition to those listed in 
.MS mount 8 .
.PP
The
.PN umount
command unmounts the file system that was previously
mounted on the specified directory.
.SH Options
.NXR "mount command (CDFS)" "options"
.IP \fB\-r\fR 12
Indicates that the file system
is to be mounted read only. Please note this is
a mandatory option, and is appended to the mount
string if not present.
.IP \fB\-v\fR
Tells what did or did not happen.
(Verbose flag)
.IP "\fB\-o \fIoptions\fR"
Specifies 
.I options
as a sequence of comma-separated words from the list below.
The defaults are:
.sp .5
\fBro,defperm,pgthresh=64\fR
.sp .5
The CDFS options are:
.IP \fBdefperm\fR 14
Files and directories recorded on an ISO 9660 formatted
file system may or may not have permission bits. This
options ignores these permissions bits, if present, and
defaults all file and directory permissions to the value
0666, with a zero UID (owned by root). This is a default
option since the permissions on most of the existing ISO 9660 
formatted CD-ROM's do not map into the UID scheme ULTRIX uses.
.IP \fBnodefperm\fR
Use the on-disk permission bits, if present. If a file or
directory is not recorded with permissions bits, the 0666
default is used.
.IP \fBnoversion\fR
If a file recorded on an ISO 9660 formatted file system contains
a version string, strip off the ';#' extension. This option should
be used in conjunction with mounting a CD-ROM containing MS-DOS
applications.
.PP
The option for
.PN umount
is:
.IP \fB\-v\fR
Tells what did or did not happen.
(Verbose flag)
.SH Restrictions
.NXR "mount command (CDFS)" "restricted"
If mounting of an ISO 9660 or HSG volume fails with
.EX 0
cdfs_mount: Operation Not Supported
.EE
refer to the 
.MS cdfs 5cdfs
reference  page for details pertaining to
the correct system configuration file options which must exist
prior to using the CDFS.
.PP
If the directory on which a file system is to be mounted is a
symbolic link,
the file system is mounted on 
the directory to which the symbolic link refers,
rather than being mounted on top of the symbolic link itself.
.SH Examples
.NXR "mount command (CDFS)"
.\" The
.\" .PN cdfs_mount
.\" is not the suggested interface.
The
.PN mount
command invokes
.PN cdfs_mount
to do its work.
A sample
.PN mount
command is:
.EX 0
# mount \-t cdfs \-o pgthresh=100 /dev/rz3c /cdrom
.EE
.\" This would be translated to \fBcdfs_mount\fP as:
.\" .EX 0
.\" cdfs_mount \-o pgthresh=100 /dev/rz3c /cdrom
.\" .EE
To mount the ISO 9660 formatted file system on the block device
.PN /dev/rz3c
onto the local directory
.PN /cdfs
with the file version strings stripped,
type:
.EX 0
# mount \-t cdfs \-o noversion /dev/rz3c /cdfs
.EE
.\" The
.\" .PN cdfs_umount
.\" is not the suggested interface.
.\" The 
.\" .PN umount 
.\" command invokes
.\" .PN cdfs_umount
.\" to do its work.
.SH Files
.TP 15
.PN /etc/fstab
File system information file
.TP
.PN /etc/cdfs_mount
CDFS-specific mount program
.SH See Also
getmnt(2), mount(2), fstab(5), mount(8), umount(8), cdfs(5cdfs)
