.\" SCCSID: @(#)mount.8nfs	8.3	9/28/90
.TH mount 8nfs
.SH Name
mount, umount \- mount and unmount a Network File System (NFS)
.SH Syntax
.B "/etc/mount [ \-t nfs \-f \-r \-v ] ["
.I options 
.B ] 
.I device directory
.PP
.B /etc/umount [
.B \-v ] 
.I directory
.SH Description
.NXR "mount command (NFS)"
.NXR "umount command (NFS)"
.NXR "NFS file system" 
.NXR "mountd daemon"
.NXR "file system"
The
.PN mount
command allows you to mount a file system or directory
onto a directory.
Once a file system or directory has been mounted,
it is treated as a file system.
.PP
The argument
.I device 
can have one of the following forms:
.IP
\fIhost:remote_name\fR
.IP
\fIremote_name@host\fR
.PP
The
.I remote_name
is the name of a file system or subtree of a file system
that has been exported by
\fIhost\fR.
The file
.I directory
must exist and must be a directory.
It becomes the name of the newly mounted file system.
.PP
General users can mount file systems with certain restrictions
in addition to those listed in 
.MS mount 8 .
.PP
The
.PN umount
command unmounts the remote file system that was previously
mounted on the specified directory.
.SH Options
See the
.MS mount 8
reference page for a description of the \fB\-t\fR option.
.NXR "mount command (NFS)" "options"
.IP \fB\-f\fR 12
Fast unmount.
The
.B \-f
option has no meaning for local file systems and directories.
However,
for remote file system types (such as NFS), the
.B \-f
option causes the client to unmount the remotely mounted file systems
and directories without notifying the server.
This can avoid the delay of waiting for acknowledgment
from a server that is down.
.IP \fB\-r\fR 12
Indicates that the file system
is to be mounted read only.
.IP \fB\-v\fR
Tells what did or did not happen.
(Verbose flag)
.IP "\fB\-o \fIoptions\fR"
Specifies 
.I options
as a sequence of words, separated by commas,
from the list that follows. 
The default options are as follows:
.sp .5
\fBrw,hard,intr,retry=10,000,timeo=11,retrans=4, \\
.br
port=NFS_PORT,pgthresh=64\fR
.sp .5
Defaults for 
.I rsize 
and 
.I wsize 
are set by the kernel.
The NFS options are as follows:
.RS
.PP
.IP \fBbg\fR 14
If the first mount attempt fails,
retry the mount in the background the number of times specified
(the default is 10,000 times).
.IP \fBhard\fR
Retry the NFS operation (not the \f(CWmount\fR)
request until server responds.
The
.B hard
option applies after the
.PN mount
has succeeded. 
Use the 
.B hard 
option when mounting 
.PN rw
(read-write) file systems.
.IP \fBintr\fR
Allow 
.B hard 
mounted file system operations to be interrupted.
.IP \fBnintr\fR
Disallow 
.B hard 
mounted file system operations from being interrupted.
.IP \fBnoexec\fR
Binaries cannot be executed from this file system.
.IP \fBnosuid\fR
The
.PN setuid
and
.PN setgid
programs can not be executed from this file system.
.IP \fBpgthresh=##\fR
Set the paging threshold for this file system in kilobytes.
.IP \fBport=\fIn\fR
Set server IP port number to 
.I n.
.IP \fBretrans=\fIn\fR 
Set number of NFS operation retransmissions (not the \f(CWmount\fR) to 
.I n.
The
.B retrans=
option applies after the
.PN mount
has succeeded.
.IP \fBretry=\fIn\fR
Set number of mount failure retries to 
.I n.
The
.B retry=
option applies to the
.PN mount
command, itself.
.IP \fBro\fR
Read-only.
.IP \fBrsize=\fIn\fR
Set read buffer size to 
.I n 
bytes.
.IP \fBrw\fR
Read/write.
.IP \fBsoft\fR
Return an error if the server does not respond to the NFS operation
(not the \f(CWmount\fR)
request.
The
.B soft
option applies after the
.PN mount
has succeeded.
Do not use the 
.B soft
option to mount
.PN rw
(read-write) file systems.
.IP \fBtimeo=\fIn\fR
Set NFS timeout to 
.I n 
tenths of a second.
.IP \fBwsize=\fIn\fR
Set write buffer size to 
.I n
bytes.
.PP 
The following options affect how quickly you see updates to a file or
directory that has been modified by another host.  Increasing these 
values will give you slightly better performance.  Decreasing these 
values decreases the time it takes for you to see modifications made 
on another host.
If you are
the only modifier of files under this mount point, you can increase
these values.
.IP \fBacdirmin=\fIn\fR 14
Hold cached directory attributes for at least \fIn\fR seconds.
The default is 30 seconds.
.IP \fBacdirmax=\fIn\fR 14
Hold cached directory attributes for no more than \fIn\fR seconds.
The default is 60 seconds.  The maximum value allowed is 3600.
.IP \fBacregmin=\fIn\fR 14
Hold cached file attributes for at least \fIn\fR seconds.  The
default is 3 seconds.
.IP \fBacregmax=\fIn\fR 14
Hold cached file attributes for no more than \fIn\fR seconds.
The default is 60 seconds.  The maximum value allowed is 3600.
.IP \fBactimeo=\fIn\fR 14
Set all four attributes cache timeout values to \fIn\fR.
.IP \fBnoac\fR 14
Do not set attribute caching.  This is equivalent to 
\fBactimeo=0\fR.
.RE
.PP
The
.PN bg
option causes 
.PN mount
to run in the background if the server's
.PN mountd
daemon does not respond.  
The
.PN mount 
command attempts each request \fBretry=\fIn\fR
times before giving up.
Once the file system is mounted,
each NFS request made in the kernel waits
\fBtimeo=\fIn\fR
tenths of a second for a response.
If no response arrives,
the time-out is multiplied by 2 
and the request is retransmitted.
.PP
When \fBretrans=\fIn\fR
retransmissions have been sent with no reply, a
.B soft
mounted file system returns an error on the request and a
.B hard
mounted file system retries the request.
If a 
.B hard 
mounted file system was mounted with the
.PN intr
option,
an operation within that file system that is retrying
(for example, the server is down) can be interrupted.
File systems that are mounted 
.PN rw
(read-write)
should use the 
.B hard
option.
The number of bytes in a read or write request can be set with the
.PN rsize
and
.PN wsize
options. The values for 
.PN rsize
and
.PN wsize
must be between 512 and 8192, and be a multiple of 512.
.PP
The option for
.PN umount
is:
.IP \fB\-v\fR
Tells what did or did not happen.
(Verbose flag)
.SH Restrictions
.NXR "mount command (NFS)" "restricted"
If the directory on which a file system is to be mounted is a
symbolic link,
the file system is mounted on 
the directory to which the symbolic link refers,
rather than being mounted on top of the symbolic link itself.
.PP
The
.PN /etc/nfs_mount
and
.PN /etc/nfs_umount
commands should only be invoked by the
.PN mount
and
.PN umount
commands.
It is recommended that users (and superusers) do not invoke the
.PN nfs_mount
and
.PN nfs_umount
commands. An exception to this rule is the use of the 
.PN nfs_umount 
.B \-b 
command in the
.PN /etc/rc.local 
file. The 
.PN nfs_umount 
.B \-b 
command broadcasts a message informing NFS servers that this machine
no longer has any NFS filesystems mounted. This is done in case the
machine had crashed while it had NFS filesystems mounted. The servers
use this information to clean up their
.PN rmtab 
tables. The
.PN nfssetup 
command automatically adds the
.PN nfs_umount
.B \-b
line to the
.PN /etc/rc.local 
file on NFS client systems.
.SH Examples
.NXR "mount command (NFS)"
.\" The
.\" .PN nfs_mount
.\" is not the suggested interface.
The
.PN mount
command invokes
.PN nfs_mount
to do its work.
A sample
.PN mount
command is:
.IP "" 5
# \fBmount \-t nfs \-o hard,pgthresh=100 server:/usr /usr\fR
.\" This would be translated to \fBnfs_mount\fP as:
.\" .EX 0
.\" nfs_mount \-o hard,pgthresh=100 server:/usr /usr
.\" .EE
.PP
To mount the remote file system
.PN /usr/src
onto the local directory
.PN /mnt
with 1k transfer size,
type:
.IP "" 5
# \fBmount \-t nfs \-o rsize=1024,wsize=1024 serv:/usr/src /mnt\fR
.PP
To mount the remote directory
.PN /usr/src/code
onto the local directory
.PN /usr/src ,
type:
.IP "" 5
# \fBmount \-t nfs serv:/usr/src/code /usr/src\fR
.PP
To 
.B hard 
mount a remote file system called
.PN /usr/src
onto the local directory
.PN /usr/src ,
type:
.IP "" 5
# \fBmount \-t nfs \-o hard serv:/usr/src /usr/src\fR
.\" The
.\" .PN nfs_umount
.\" is not the suggested interface.
.\" The 
.\" .PN umount 
.\" command invokes
.\" .PN nfs_umount
.\" to do its work.
.SH Files
.TP 20
.PN /etc/fstab
File system information file
.TP
.PN /etc/nfs_mount
NFS-specific mount program
.TP
.PN /etc/nfs_umount
NFS-specific unmount program
.SH See Also
getmnt(2), mount(2), fstab(5), exports(5nfs), mount(8),
umount(8), mountd(8nfs), rmtab(5nfs), nfssetup(8nfs)
