.\" SCCSID: @(#)mtx.8	6.3	1/4/90
.TH mtx 8 
.SH Name
mtx \- generic magtape exerciser
.SH Syntax
.B /usr/field/mtx
.B [
.I options
.B ]
.BI \-a dev
.br
.B /usr/field/mtx
.B [
.I options
.B ]
.BI \-s dev
.br
.B /usr/field/mtx
.B [
.I options
.B ]
.BI \-l dev
.br
.B /usr/field/mtx
.B [
.I options
.B ]
.BI \-v dev
.SH Description
.NXR "mtx exerciser"
.NXR "magnetic tape" "testing data"
The 
.PN mtx 
exerciser will write, read, and validate random
data on the specified magnetic tape device from beginning
of tape (BOT) to end of tape (EOT).
There are four record length modes in which to run 
the
.PN mtx
exerciser.  The modes are short (512 bytes),
long (10240 bytes), variable (512-20480 bytes), and 
all of these three in sequence. 
.PP
The exerciser will run 
until 
.CT C
or a kill \-15 \fIpid\fR is
sent to the process. 
.PP
A logfile is made in 
.PN /usr/field
for you to examine and then remove. If there are errors
in the logfile, check the 
.PN /usr/adm/syserr/syserr.<hostname> 
file, where the driver and kernel error 
messages are saved.
.PP
An enhanced tape exerciser called 
.PN tapex 
provides more comprehensive tape
testing than this exerciser.  Refer to 
.MS tapex 8
for a complete description.
.SH Options
.NXR "mtx exerciser" "options"
The \fImtx\fR options are:
.IP \fB\-h\fR 1i
Print help message for the 
.PN mtx 
command.
.IP \fB\-o\fIfile\fR 1i
Save diagnostic output in \fIfile\fR.
.IP \fB\-t\fIi\fR
Run time in minutes (\fIi\fR). 
The default is to run until the process receives
a 
.CT C
or kill \-15 \fIpid\fR.
.IP \fB\-r\fIj\fR
Record length for long-record test.  May range from 1 - 20480;
the default is 10240 bytes.
.IP \fB\-f\fIk\fR
Size of file in records. 
The default is \-1, go to end-of-tape. 
.SH Arguments
You must specify one of the following function flags and
its argument to the
.PN mtx
exerciser.
.IP \fB\-a\fIdev\fR 1i
Perform short, long, and variable-length record tests
on the \fIdev\fR, a raw device name and unit number.  For
example, \fB\-armt0h\fR.
.IP \fB\-s\fIdev\fR 1i
Perform short (512-byte) record length test.  The \fIdev\fR
argument is a raw device name and unit number.  For example,
\fB\-srmt0h\fR.
.IP \fB\-l\fIdev\fR 1i
Perform long (10240-byte) record length test.  The \fIdev\fR
argument is a raw device name and unit number.  For example
\fB\-lrmt0h\fR.
.IP \fB\-v\fIdev\fR 1i
Perform variable record length test (records vary from 512 bytes
to 20480 bytes).  The \fIdev\fR argument is a raw device name
and unit number.  For example, \fB\-vrmt0h\fR.
.SH Restrictions 
If there is a need to run a system exerciser over an NFS link or on a diskless
system there are some restrictions.  For exercisers that need to write into a file
system, such as 
.MS fsx 8 ,
the target file system must be writable by root.  Also the directory, in which any
of the exercisers are executed, must be writable by root because temporary
files are written into the current directory.  These latter restrictions are
sometimes difficult to overcome because often NFS file systems are mounted in a
way that prevents root from writing into them.  Some of the restrictions may be
overcome by copying the exerciser to another directory and then executing it.  
.PP
The following restrictions apply to the SCSI tape drives.
The Magnetic Tape Exerciser (MTX) runs the tape in start/stop mode; that is,
the tape does not stream. Therefore, MTX should not run for extended
periods of time (two hours maximum run time). In addition, MTX does not
handle the end of tape properly.
.SH Examples
.NXR "mtx exerciser" "example"
This example runs short, long, and variable-length tests
on rmt0h until the process receives a
.CT C
or
kill \-15 \fIpid\fR:
.EX
% /usr/field/mtx \-armt0h
.EE
The following example runs a long-record length test on
rmt0h for 240 minutes in the background:
.EX
% /usr/field/mtx \-lrmt0h \-t240 &
.EE
.SH See Also
tapex(8)
.br
.I "Guide to System Exercisers"
