.TH named 8
.SH Name
named \- Internet name domain server daemon
.SH Syntax
.B /usr/etc/named
[
.B \-d
.I level#
] [
.B \-p
.I port#
] [
.B \-b
.I bootfile
][
.B \-n
][
.B \-a
.I type.version
]
.SH Description
.NXR "name" "daemon"
The
.PN named
daemon is the Internet domain name server for the BIND/Hesiod service.
Without any arguments,
.PN named
reads the default boot file
.PN /etc/named.boot
and any initial data from the BIND/Hesiod data base files.
.PN Named 
then listens for queries.
.PP
The boot file specifies where the BIND/Hesiod server is to get
its initial data.  See the Example section.
.PP
The master data files consist of entries of the following form:
.EX
$include \fIfile\fR
$origin \fIdomain\fR
\fIdomain ttl addr-class entry-type resource-record-data\fR
.EE
The
.PN include
entry is useful for separating data into separate files.
The
.PN origin
entry is useful for placing more than one domain in a data file.
It can also be used to set the reverse network number origin.
The fields are:
.IP file 13
This is the name of the file to be included.
.IP domain 
This is the domain name.
.\" A period (.) signifies the root domain.
An at sign (@) signifies the current origin.
A name refers to the standard domain name.
If the domain name does not end with a period,
the current origin is appended to the domain.
A domain name ending with a period is the complete BIND domain name
(fully qualified) and thus does not get an extension appended to it.
.IP ttl
This field is an optional integer specifying the time to live.
If no time to live is specified,
the default is obtained from the SOA entry.
.IP addr-class
This field is the object class type.
There are three classes:
.RS
.IP IN 11
Objects connected to the DARPA Internet
.IP HS 11
Hesiod naming service data
.IP ANY 11
All classes
.RE
.IP entry-type
The most common entries for this field are listed
below.  The
.PN resource-record-data
field, however, must correspond with the entry type:
.RS
.IP A 11
Host address
.IP CNAME
Canonical name for an alias
.IP HINFO
Host information
.IP MX
Mail exchanger
.IP NS
Authoritative name server
.IP PTR
Domain name pointer
.IP SOA
Start of a zone of authority
.IP TXT
Hesiod text
.IP WKS
Well-known service description
.RE
.PP
The following signals have the specified effect when sent to the
server
.PN named
process using the
.PN kill
command:
.IP SIGXFSZ 13
Causes the server to reload only the databases that have changed.
.IP SIGHUP 13
Causes the server to read 
.PN named.boot 
and reload database.
.IP SIGINT
Dumps the current data base and cache to
.PN /var/tmp/named_dump.db .
.IP SIGIOT
Dumps
.PN named
statistics to
.PN /var/tmp/named.stats .
.IP SIGUSR1
Turns on debugging.
Each time the SIGUSR1 signal is issued,
the debug level increments by one.
Debugging information is dumped to 
.PN /var/tmp/named.run .
.IP SIGUSR2
Turns off debugging.
.SH Options
.IP "\fB\-b \fIbootfile\fR" 13
Names of the boot file.
If no boot file is specified,
the default is
.PN /etc/named.boot .
.IP "\fB\-d \fIlevel#\fR"
Prints debugging information.
A number after the 
\fB\-d\fR 
option determines the level of messages printed.
It is a good idea to run the
.PN named
daemon with the \-d option in the background.
.IP "\fB\-p \fIport#\fR"
Specifies the port number.
The default is the standard port number listed in the
.PN /etc/services
file.
.IP "\fB\-n\fR"
Runs 
.PN named
in network safe mode.  All HS class queries sent over the
network are authenticated.  Non-authenticated queries for
HS information from hosts other than local host are not 
answered.  Non-authenticated requests for zone transfers are 
ignored.
.IP "\fB\-a \fItype.version\fR"
Specifies the default authentication type.  When authenticated 
queries are formed, 
.PN named
needs to know what type of authentication to use.  The 
.I type
parameter specifies the form of authentication.  The
.I version
parameter specifies the version of the 
.I type
to use.  The supported forms of authentication are:
.RS
.IP type 10
Kerberos
.IP version 
One
.RE
.SH Examples
The following is an example of a boot file:
.EX 0
.nf
;
;     boot file for name server
;
; type     domain                 source file or host
;
primary    cities.us              hosts.db
;
primary    2.10.in-addr.arpa      hosts.rev
;
primary    0.0.127.in-addr.arpa   named.local
;
secondary  cc.cities.us           10.2.0.78 128.32.0.10
;
; load the cache data last
cache       .                     named.ca	
.fi
.EE
Entries beginning with a semicolon are comment lines.
In this example,
the first line that is not a comment specifies that this system is
the primary authoritative BIND server for the
domain
.PN cities.us .
This line also specifies that the file
.PN hosts.db
contains authoritative data for the
.PN cities.us
domain.
Domain names in the file
.PN hosts.db
are relative to the origin,
such as
.PN cities.us 
in the preceding example.
.PP
The second and third non-comment entries (beginning with
.PN primary )
show the
.PN in-addr.arpa
domain in reverse order.
This allows address to name mapping.
.PP
The fourth non-comment line specifies that all authoritative data under
.PN cc.cities.us
is to be transferred from the primary master server at IP address
.PN 10.2.0.78
to the secondary server.
If the transfer fails, the secondary server will then try the
master server at address
.PN 128.32.0.10.
There can be up to 10 IP addresses listed.
.PP
The cache entry specifies that the data in
.PN named.ca
is to be placed in the cache.
This would include well known data such as the locations
of root domain servers.
.SH Files
.TP 20
.PN /var/dss/namedb/named.boot 
Name server configuration boot file
.TP 
.PN /etc/named.pid
Process ID number
.TP
.PN /var/tmp/named.run
Debug output
.TP
.PN /var/tmp/named_dump.db
Dump of the BIND server's cache
.SH See Also
kill(1), signal(3c), resolver(3), hesiod.conf(5), resolv.conf(5)
.br
.I Guide to the BIND/Hesiod Service
