.\" SCCSID: @(#)netx.8	8.2	12/3/90
.TH netx 8 
.SH Name
netx \- TCP/IP net exerciser
.SH Syntax
.B /usr/field/netx
[
.B \-h
.B ] [
.BI \-t n
B ] [
.BI \-p m
.B ]  
.I nodename
.SH Description
.NXB "netx exerciser"
.NXB "TCP network" "testing"
.NXB "IP network" "testing"
The 
.PN netx 
exerciser sets up a stream socket connection to the
.MS miscd 8c
server in the TCP/IP internet domain. With connection
made, the exerciser writes random data to the 
.PN miscd 
server; the
server loops the data back to 
.PN netx ,
and the data is read and
verified against the data written out. 
.PP
The 
.PN netx 
exerciser runs
in conjunction with the
.MS miscd 8c
server. 
.PP
The 
.PN netx 
exerciser by default
will use the port number of the echo service in the 
.PN /etc/services
file. Make sure that the TCP echo service is enabled in the 
.PN /etc/inetd.conf 
file (no `#' in front of the service). The exerciser
will run until
.CT C
or kill \-15 \fIpid\fR is sent
to the process.
The
.I nodename
is the remote or local system host name running the
.MS miscd 8c
server.
.SH Options
.NXR "netx exerciser" "options"
The \f(CWnetx\fR options are:
.IP \fB\-h\fR 1i
Print the help message for the 
.PN netx 
command.
.IP \fB\-t\fIn\fR
Run time in minutes (\fIn\fR).
The default is to run until the process
receives
.CT C
or kill \-15 \fIpid\fR.
.IP \fB\-p\fIm\fR
Specify port number to use in internet domain (\fIm\fR < 32768).
Note that this option is not used with the 
.MS miscd 8c
server, so you should never have to use this option.
.SH Restrictions 
.NXR "netx exerciser" "restricted"
If there is a need to run a system exerciser over an NFS link or on a diskless
system, there are some restrictions.  For exercisers that need to write into a file
system, such as 
.MS fsx 8 ,
the target file system must be writable by root.  Also the directory, in which any
of the exercisers are executed, must be writable by root because temporary
files are written into the current directory.  These latter restrictions are
sometimes difficult to overcome because often NFS file systems are mounted in a
way that prevents root from writing into them.  Some of the restrictions may be
overcome by copying the exerciser to another directory and then executing it.  
.SH Examples
.NXR(e) "TCP network" "testing"
.NXR(e) "IP network" "testing"
The following example exercises the TCP/IP network from the local
host to node \fBkeel\fR until a
.CT C
or kill \-15 \fIpid\fR is received:
.EX
% /usr/field/netx keel
.EE
The following example exercises the TCP/IP network from the local
host to node \fBphoton\fR for 180 minutes in the background:
.EX
% /usr/field/netx \-t180 photon &
.EE
.SH See Also
.I "Guide to System Exercisers"
.NXE "netx exerciser"
.NXE "TCP network" "testing"
.NXE "IP network" "testing"
