.\" SCCSID: @(#)pac.8	8.1	9/11/90
.TH pac 8
.SH Name
pac \- printer/plotter accounting information
.SH Syntax
.B /etc/pac
[
.B \-Pprinter
] [
.B \-pprice
] [
.B \-s
] [
.B \-r
] [
.B \-c
] [ 
.I name ... 
]
.SH Description
.NXR "pac command"
.NXR "printer" "getting paper consumption statistics"
.NXR "plotter" "getting paper consumption statistics"
The
.PN pac
command
reads the printer/plotter accounting files, accumulating the number
of pages (the usual case) or feet (for raster devices)
of paper consumed by each user, and printing out
how much each user consumed in pages or feet and dollars.
If any
.I names
are specified, statistics are only printed for those users;
usually, statistics are printed for every user who has used any paper.
.SH Options
.TP 10
.B \-P
Causes accounting to be done for the named printer.
Normally, accounting is done for the default printer (site dependent) or
the value of the environment variable
.B PRINTER
is used.
.TP 
.B \-p
Causes the value
.I price
to be used for the cost in dollars instead of the default value of 0.02.
.TP 
.B \-c
Causes the output to be sorted by cost; usually the
output is sorted alphabetically by name.
.TP
.B \-r
Reverses the sorting order.
.TP
.B \-s
Causes the accounting information to be summarized on the
summary accounting file; this summarization is necessary since on a
busy system, the accounting file can grow by several lines per day.
.SH Restrictions
The relationship between the computed price and the actual price is
unknown.
.SH Files
.TP 17
.PN /usr/adm/?acct
Raw accounting files
.TP
.PN /usr/adm/?_sum
Summary accounting files
