.TH pfstat 8
.\".UC 4
.SH Name
pfstat \- print packet filter status information
.SH Syntax
.B /usr/bin/pfstat
[
.B \-cdfkpqsv01234567
]
[ 
.I system
[ 
.I corefile
] ]
.SH Description
The 
.PN pfstat
command interprets the data structures of the packet filter
.NXR "pfstat command"
.NXR "packet filter" "pfstat command"
driver
.MS packetfilter 4 .
If
.I system
is given, 
the required namelist is taken from there; otherwise, it is taken from
.PN /vmunix .
If
.I corefile
is given, the data structures are sought there, otherwise
in
.PN /dev/kmem .
(If
.I corefile
is a core dump,
the 
.PN \-k 
option must be given.)
.SH Options
If no options are given, then all are assumed (except for
the verbose option, 
.PN \-v
).
.IP "c" 0.75i
Counts.  Displays various counts (per ethernet unit) including
number of packets sent and received, the number of packets dropped
due to full input queues, the number of packets not wanted by any
filter, and the number of packets missed by the interface.
.IP "d" 0.75i
Descriptors.  Displays OpenDescriptors for each minor device.
.IP "f" 0.75i
Filters.  Displays packet filters for each minor device.
.IP "k" 0.75i
Specifies the corefile is a crash dump, not a running system's
.PN /dev/kmem . 
.IP "p" 0.75i
Parameters.  Displays device parameters including device type,
header and address lengths, maximum transmission units (MTU),
and interface and broadcast.
addresses.
.IP "q" 0.75i
QueueElements.  Displays the QueueElements.
.IP "s" 0.75i
Scavenger.  Displays the FreeQueue and Scavenger statistics.
.IP "v" 0.75i
Verbose.  Displays information for minor devices not actually in use
and complete queue information, only if this flag is given.
.IP "<digit>" .75i
Limits output to information about specified units. If no digits
are given, all units are displayed.
.SH Restrictions
Some of the output is a bit cramped to fit on an 80-character line.
It should be possible to get a less verbose but more readable listing.
.PP
Since things happen quickly, it is not likely that
.PN pfstat
will provide a consistent view of a running system.
It is mostly useful for analyzing static or slowly-varying problems,
not transient ones.
.SH "Output Format"
This section describes the information displayed in the output
of the 
.PN pfstat
command under the headings
.PN AllDescriptors ,
.PN Filters ,
and
.PN QueueElts .
.\".PD 0
.PP
.PN AllDescriptors
.in .25i
.RS
.IP "#" 1.25i
Minor device number for open descriptor.
.IP LOC 1.25i
Descriptor location.
.IP LINK-QUEUE 1.25i
Forward link to other descriptors.
.IP STATE 1.25i
Blank, or one of:
.RS
.IP wait .75i
waiting for input, indefinite wait
.IP timed .75i
waiting for input, timed wait
.IP tout .75i
has timed out
.\".IP "anything else" 1.25i
.\"shouldn't happen
.RE
.IP WAIT-QUEUE 1.25i
Addresses of ``Queue Elements'' for waiting packets.
.IP "NQ'D" 1.25i
Number of packets queued for input/maximum for this queue.
.IP TOUT 1.25i
Timeout duration in clock ticks (if the
.PN \-v
[Verbose] option is not given, then times may be expressed as
minutes [with a trailing ``m''], hours [with a trailing ``h''],
or simply ``long'', to keep the columns lined up.)
.br
.ne 1.5i
.IP "MODE" 1.25i
Shows which mode bits are set for the minor device; each bit is encoded
as a single character:
.RS
.IP "H" .25i
ENHOLDSIG
.IP "B" .25i
ENBATCH
.IP "T" .25i
ENTSTAMP
.IP "P" .25i
ENPROMISC
.IP "N" .25i
ENNONEXCL
.IP "C" .25i
ENCOPYALL
.IP "?" .25i
An unknown mode bit is set.
.RE
.IP "SIG" 1.25i
Signal number to be delivered when a packet arrives.
.IP PROC 1.25i
Process to be signaled when a packet arrives.
.IP PID 1.25i
Process id which enabled the signal.
.\".PD
.RE
.PP
.\".PD 0
.PP
.PN Filters 
.in .25i
.RS
.IP "#" 1.25i
Minor device number of filter.
.IP COUNT 1.25i
Count of packets accepted by this filter.
.IP DROPS 1.25i
Count of ``recent'' drops for this filter.
.IP PRI 1.25i
Priority of filter.
.IP LEN 1.25i
Length of filter (in shortwords).
.IP FILTER 1.25i
See
.MS packetfilter 4
for interpretation of packet filters.
.\".PD
.PP
.\".PD 0
.RE
.PP
.PN QueueElts
.in .25i
.RS
.IP LOC 1.25i
Location of queue element.
.IP LINK-QUEUE 1.25i
Forward and backward links.
.IP COUNT 1.25i
Packet size.
.IP REF 1.25i
Reference count for queue element.
.IP FLAGS 1.25i
Per-packet flag bits set; each bit is encoded
as a single character:
.RS
.IP "P" .25i
ENSF_PROMISC
.IP "B" .25i
ENSF_BROADCAST
.IP "M" .25i
ENSF_MULTICAST
.IP "T" .25i
ENSF_TRAILER
.IP "?" .25i
An unknown flag bit is set.
.RE
.IP DROP 1.25i
Count of packets dropped between the time previous packet was queued
and the time this packet was queued.
.IP TIME 1.25i
Approximate time this packet was received.
.\".PD
.RE
.SH Files
.TP 15
.PN /vmunix
Namelist
.TP
.PN /dev/kmem
Default source of tables
.SH See Also
netstat(1), packetfilter(4), pfconfig(8c), pstat(8)
.\" K. Thompson
.\" .I UNIX Implementation
.\".SH Author
.\"Jeffrey Mogul at Stanford, after work done by Mike Accetta at CMU, based
.\"on
.\".IR pstat (8).
