.\" SCCSID: @(#)quotaon.8	8.1	9/11/90
.TH quotaon 8 
.SH Name
quotaon, quotaoff \- turn file system quotas on and off
.SH Syntax
/etc/quotaon
[ \fIoption\fR ... ] [ \fIfilesystem\fR ]
.PP
/etc/quotaoff
[ \fIoption\fR ... ] [ \fIfilesystem\fR ]
.SH Description
.NXR "quotaon command"
.NXR "quotaoff command"
.NXR "disk quota" "enabling for file system"
The
.PN quotaon
command
informs the system that disc quotas should be enabled
on one or more file systems.
Specified file systems must have entries
in 
.PN /etc/fstab 
and be mounted.
Quota files must be present in the root
directory of the specified file systems and be named
.I quotas.
The quotas file is created with 
.MS quotacheck 8 .
The quota file is updated by
.MS edquota 8 .
.SH Options
The option
.PN \-v
causes
.PN quotaon
to print a message for each file system whose quotas are enabled.
The
.PN \-a
argument may be used in stead of a list of file systems. It 
causes
.PN quotaon
to enable quotas on all
file systems in 
.PN /etc/fstab
marked read-write. 
This option is normally used at
boot time to enable quotas.
.PP
The
.PN quotaoff
command
informs the system that disc quotas should be disabled on one or more
file systems.
The
.PN \-v
option forces a verbose message for each file system affected. 
The 
.PN \-a
option forces all file systems in 
.PN /etc/fstab 
to have their quotas disabled.
.SH Files
.TP 15
.PN /etc/fstab
File system table
.SH See Also
setquota(2), fstab(5), edquota(8)
.br
``Disk Quotas in a UNIX Environment,''
.I "ULTRIX Supplementary Documents, Volume 3: System Manager"
