.\" SCCSID: @(#)rdt.8	8.1	9/11/90
.TH rdt 8 "" "" Unsupported
.SH Name
rdt \-  read diagnostic tape
.SH Syntax
.B rdt 
.I function-key
[ \fB\-B\fIblksize\fR ] [ \fB\-D\fIdensity\fR ] [ \fIfilename\fR ... ]
.SH Description
The 
.PN rdt
command reads diagnostic programs to disk from 
labeled tapes.  The files are placed in the current
user's area.
The reading is based upon the
precepts set forth in the ANSI standard x3.27-1978.
The tape is assumed to have been written
by a VAX/VMS system. 
.PP
The
.I filename
arguments list the files to be read.
As each file is read from the tape, a disk file of the
same name is created in the user's area to contain 
the diagnostic program.
.SH Function Keys
The function performed by the
.PN rdt
command is specified
by one of the following characters:
.TP 8 
.B t
The names of the specified files are listed.
If no file argument is given, all the files on the tape are listed.
.TP 8 
.B v
Normally,
.PN rdt
does its  work  with little terminal output.
The 
.B v 
(for verbose)
option causes
.PN rdt
to type the name of each file
after processing it.
With the \fBt\fR function, \fBv\fR gives more information
about the tape entries than the name.
.TP 8
.B x
The named files are extracted from the tape.
If no 
.I filename
argument is given, the entire
content of the tape is extracted.
.SH Options
.TP 8
\fB\-B\fIblksize\fR
The
.I blksize
parameter is the block size for tape records, in bytes.
The default is 2048, the maximum is 20480.
The block size may also be specified as multiples of 512 or 1024 by
appending either the character b or k to 
.IR blksize , 
respectively.  For example, block sizes 4b and 2k 
both equal 2048 bytes.  
.TP 8 
\fB\-D\fIdens
The
.I dens
parameter is the density of the tape, in bits per inch.
Possible values are 800 or 1600.
The default is 1600 bits per inch.
If 
.I dens 
is neither 800 nor 1600,
the 
.PN rdt
command
takes 
.I dens 
to be the name of the tape device. For example, 
/dev/rmt0h.
The device must be a raw, nonrewinding magnetic tape drive.
.SH Examples
This example shows how to load the file TEST1 from
rmt0h.
.EX
rdt x TEST1
.EE
This example shows how to load the contents of a whole
800 bpi tape on
.PN /dev/nmt0l .
.EX
rdt \-D/dev/nmt0l
.EE
.SH Diagnostics
Diagnostics from
.PN rdt
are written on the standard error file.
There are two forms: warnings, which are not fatal,
and errors, which are.
The majority of diagnostics are intended to be self-explanatory.
Some that might not be are:
.PP
\fBillegal label format (\fIhdr\fB)\fR.
.br
The header 
.PN rdt
is reading contains an incorrect label identifier
or label number.
The correct header label name is enclosed between parentheses.
.PP
\fBpwd failed!\fR
.br
Cannot execute 
.PN /bin/pwd 
or 
.PN /usr/bin/pwd .
.PP
\fBcannot find mkdir!\fR
.br
Cannot execute 
.PN /bin/mkdir 
or 
.PN /usr/bin/mkdir .
.SH Files
.TP 12
.PN /dev/rmt0h	
1600 bpi tape device (default)
