.TH scamp 8
.SH Name
scamp \- System Configuration and Management Program
.SH Syntax
.B /usr/etc/scamp
.SH Description
.NXR "scamp program (SCAMP)"
The 
.PN scamp
utility is a menu-driven program that helps you set up and manage your system.
scamp allows you to manage user accounts and software subsets, and to perform 
basic system management tasks such as setting the system date and time,
and rebooting the system.
.PP
.PN scamp 
uses the directory 
.PN /usr/etc/scampdir
to store all of it's files.
.SH Restrictions
This utility is installed in the 
.PN /usr/etc
directory.  To have access to 
.PN scamp
while in single-user mode the 
.PN /usr
partition must be mounted.
.SH Examples
When 
.PN scamp
is invoked a page of welcome text first displayed.  After you hit a 
carriage return the Main Menu is displayed.
.nf

                *****************************
                  ULTRIX  SCAMP  MAIN  MENU
                *****************************

                1 - User Account Management
                2 - Network Setup Information
                3 - Terminal Setup
                4 - Modem Setup
                5 - Printer Setup
                6 - Install/Remove Software Subsets
                7 - License Management Facility - LMF
                8 - System Management Services

                0 - Exit

                Enter your choice: 
.fi
At the 'Enter your choice:' prompt you enter the number that is beside
the task you would like to perform.  To enter a Product Authorization Key (PAK)
you use the 'License Management Facility - LMF' menu item, so you would
enter a 7 at the prompt.
.PP
Each of the Main Menu items have one or more screenfulls of information
that could be displayed.  To exit to the previous screen, or to exit
the utility when at Main Menu, enter a 0 at the prompt.
.SH Files
.PN /usr/etc/scamp
.br
.PN /usr/etc/scampdir
.SH See Also
.br
\fIGuide to SCAMP\fP
