.TH secsetup 8
.SH Name
secsetup \- enable the enhanced security features
.SH Syntax
.B /usr/etc/sec/secsetup
.SH Description
.NXR "secsetup command"
The
.PN secsetup
command is an interactive facility that allows you to enable the
enhanced security features on your system.
You must first have loaded the enhanced security subset onto
your system before running the command.
.PP
The
.PN secsetup
command allows you to configure your system either for security auditing,
trusted path, enhanced login, or any combination of those features.
In addition, the
.PN secsetup
command may add lines to the
.PN /etc/rc.local
file.
.NT
To remove entries from the
.PN /etc/rc.local
you must edit it by hand.
The
.PN secsetup
command only adds lines to this file if they aren't already present.
.NE
You can run
.PN secsetup
while the system is in multiuser mode (however, some inconsistencies
may result from this.  See the 
.I "Security Guide for Administrators"
for more information).
To run
.PN secsetup ,
type the following
and then answer the questions that follow:
.EX
# \fB/usr/etc/sec/secsetup\fP
.EE
Depending on the security features chosen, when
.PN secsetup
completes
you may need to replace your system's kernel and reboot the system.
For example, chosing either the security auditing or trusted path
feature may require you to re-build your kernel.
.PP
.SH Files
.PN /etc/sec/audit_events
.br
.PN /etc/auth
.br
.PN /etc/passwd
.br
.PN /etc/rc.local
.br
.PN /etc/svc.conf
.SH See Also
set_audit_mask(8), auth(5), svc.conf(5)
.br
.I "Security Guide for Administrators"
