.TH setld 8
.SH Name
setld \- software subset management utility
.SH Syntax
.B /etc/setld 
[
.B \-D
.I root-path
]
.B \-l
.I location
[
.I subset...
]
.sp
.\"
.\" 
.B /etc/setld
[
.B \-D
.I root-path
]
.B \-d
.I subset...
.br
.\"
.B /etc/setld
[
.B \-D
.I root-path
]
.B \-i
[
.I subset...
]
.br
.B /etc/setld
[
.B \-D
.I root-path
]
.B \-v
.I subset...
.br
.B /etc/setld
[
.B \-D
.I root-path
]
.B \-c
.I subset
.I message
.sp
.B /etc/setld
[
.B \-D
.I root-path
]
.B \-x
.I location
[
.I subset...
]
.SH Description
.NX R "setld utility"
.NX R "software subsets" "installing and managing"
.NX R "Installing software subsets"
The
.PN setld
command is used for installing and managing software. Software is
organized into
.I subsets
which may be loaded, deleted, inventoried, updated, verified and
configured. The load and update operations
read software from disks, tapes or from an Internet installation
server.
.PP
The
.PN setld
command is also used to read the contents of an installation
tape onto a disk so that the disk can be used as the distribution
media.
.PP
The \fIlocation\fP argument specifies the location of distribution. 
This can be be either
the name of a directory, a device special file name, or
the name of a remote installation server. The specified \fIlocation\fR
is used to determine the type of media to be
used. Valid location specifiers include the following:
.RS
.IP \fI/dev/rmt0h\fR 15
Magnetic tape on tape unit 0
.IP \fI/mnt/VAX/BASE\fR
Disk distribution in directory
.I /mnt/VAX/BASE
.IP \fIhostname:\fR
Remote distribution from server
.I hostname
.RE
.PP
The \fIsubset\fR argument specifies the name of a 
subset on which an operation is
to be performed. The \fIsubset\fR names are strings of seven or
more characters used to uniquely identify subsets, for example,
.PN UDTUUCP400 .
.PP
The \fImessage\fR argument specifies a string to be sent to a 
subset control program
to configure a \fIsubset\fR.
.SH Function Keys
.TP
.B \-l
Load software from distribution mounted on
.I location.
If no optional
.I subset
is specified, a menu of subsets available on
the distribution is presented. Any subset
chosen from the menu is then loaded on the system.
If an optional
.I subset
is specified, only that subset is loaded.
.TP
.B \-d
Delete
.I subset
from the system. Each
.I subset
named on the command line is removed from the system.
All files in each
.I subset
which have not been modified since installation
are unlinked.
.IP
Subsets can be marked by a vendor during manufacture so that they
cannot be deleted.  Attempts
to delete such subsets will generate an appropriate diagnostic.
.IP
If a subset being deleted is required by other subsets installed
to the system, these are listed and the user is asked to confirm
that the subset is to be deleted.
.TP
.B \-i
Inventory the system or any specified
.I subset.
When no
.I subset
is specified, the state of the system is listed on
standard output in three columns.
The first column gives the code for a subset known to
the system. The second column lists the status of that
subset. The value for the status is
.PN installed
if the subset is currently installed,
.PN corrupt
if the subset failed to install correctly,
.PN incomplete 
if information in the subset control file is incomplete,
or blank if the subset is not installed.
The third column presents the textual description for
that subset.
.IP
When
.I subset
arguments are present, the names of the files which
make up the contents of each
.I subset
are listed. The
.I subset
does not need to be currently installed for this option
to display its contents.
.TP
.B \-v
Verify each
.I subset.
The existence of the subset is first checked. Then
.PN fverify
is used to verify the integrity of each file in the subset.
Verification errors and informational messages resulting from 
.PN fverify
are logged to
.PN usr/var/adm/fverifylog
relative to \fIroot-path\fP. If the
subset is provided with an installation verification program
(IVP), the IVP is executed.
.TP
.B \-c
Configure
.I subset,
passing the configuration message
.I message
to the subset control program.
.TP
.B \-x
Extract subsets from the distribution media
mounted on
.I location.
If you specify no
.I subset
arguments,
.PN setld
displays a menu of subsets on the
distribution.  Subsets chosen from this
menu are extracted. 
.PP
If you specify
.I subset
arguments, 
.PN setld
extracts only the subsets specified.
.SH Options
.TP
.B \-D \fIroot-path\fR
Specify
.I root-path
as the root directory for
an operation. The default is
.B / 
for all operations except
.BR \-x .
The default for
.B \-x
is the current directory.
If this option is specified,
.PN setld
will operate on the software rooted at the specified
directory. This option is useful for installing software
to offline systems on removable media or dual-ported
disk drives.
.SH Restrictions
Do not attempt to install software into an NFS mounted file system.
.SH Examples
Load software subsets from tape unit 2:
.IP "" 5
#
.B "setld \-l /dev/rmt2h"
.PP
Load the
.PN UDTUUCP400
subset from tape unit 2:
.IP "" 5
#
.B "setld \-l /dev/rmt2h UDTUUCP400"
.PP
Load the 
.PN UDTUUCP400
subset to an offline system
rooted at
.PN /mnt
from tape unit 2:
.IP "" 5
#
.B "setld \-D /mnt \-l /dev/rmt2h UDTUUCP400"
.PP
Load the
.PN UDTUUCP400
subset to an offline system rooted at 
.PN /mnt
from installation server
.PN mumbly :
.IP "" 5
#
.B "setld \-D /mnt \-l mumbly: UDTUUCP400"
.PP
Load the 
.PN UDTUUCP400
subset to an offline system rooted at 
.PN /mnt
from a disk distribution in
.PN /mnt2/RISC/BASE :
.IP "" 5
#
.B "setld \-D /mnt \-l /mnt2/RISC/BASE UDTUUCT400"
.PP
Delete the
.PN UDTUUCP400
and
.PN UDTCOMM400
subsets:
.IP "" 5
#
.B "setld \-d UDTUUCP400 UDTCOMM400"
.PP
Delete 
.PN UDTUUCP400
and
.PN UDTCOMM400
subsets from the offline system
rooted at
.PN /mnt :
.IP "" 5
#
.B "setld \-D /mnt \-d UDTUUCP400 UDTCOMM400"
.PP
Display the status of all subsets known to
the system:
.IP "" 5
%
.B "setld \-i"
.PP
Display the status of all subsets known to the offline system rooted
at
.PN /mnt :
.IP "" 5
%
.B "setld \-D /mnt \-i"
.PP
Display the contents of the
.PN UDTUUCP400
subset:
.IP "" 5
%
.B "setld \-i UDTUUCP400"
.PP
Verify the
.PN ULTVAXC400
subset on the running system:
.IP "" 5
#
.B "setld \-v ULTVAXC400"
.PP
Send the configuration message
\fB"Don't Worry, Be Happy"\fR
to the 
.PN UWSX11400
subset:
.IP "" 5
#
\fBsetld \-c UWSX11400 "Don't Worry, Be Happy"\fR
.PP
Extract subsets from the distribution on tape unit 0
into the current directory:
.IP "" 5
#
.B "setld \-x /dev/nrmt0h"
.PP
Extract subsets from the disk distribution in
.PN /mnt/RISC/UNSUPPORTED
into
.PN /usr/bigdisk :
.IP "" 5
#
.B "setld \-D /usr/bigdisk \-x /mnt/RISC/UNSUPPORTED"
.SH Return Values
The exit status from
.PN setld
is 0 if the operation requested was performed successfully. All
other cases yield exit status of 1 for failed operations on
mandatory subsets and greater than 1 for failed operations on 
optional subsets.
.SH Diagnostics
.B "\-\fIc\fP can be used by super-user only"
.br
The
.PN setld
command was entered by a non-root user with one of the root-only
function keys. The only function which 
.PN setld 
will perform
for non-privileged users is
.BR \-i .
.PP
.B "error in Args()"
.br
This message is displayed if 
.PN setld
cannot understand the command line arguments. It will
always be preceded by a usage message or another diagnostic.
.PP
.B "Temp directory /usr/tmp/stltmp\fIXXXXXX\fP already in use"
.br
This message is displayed if the temporary directory that
.PN setld
would create for itself already exists. Run 
.PN setld
again.
.PP
.B "Cannot create directory \fIdir\fP"
.br
The directory
.I dir
which is needed for
.PN setld
to operate correctly could not be created. This can happen
if parts of the system are NFS-mounted but not root-mapped.
.PP
.B "error in Dirs()"
.br
This message always accompanies the preceding two messages.
.PP
.B "\fIsubset\fB: not currently installed, cannot configure."
.br
Occurs when
.I subset
is used as an argument to
.B \-c
but
.I subset
is not installed to the system.
.PP
.B "\fIsubset\fB: missing control program, cannot configure."
.br
An attempt is being made to
configure
.I subset
but the program responsible for doing this
is missing. Delete the subset and install it again 
before retrying the operation.
.PP
.B "\fIsubset\fB: not currently installed, cannot delete"
.br
A
.I subset
specified as an argument with the
.B \-d
switch is not installed on the system, it cannot be
deleted.
.PP
\fBReadCtrlFile(): cannot find \fIfilename\fP.ctrl\fR
.br
The control file named in the error message is not where
it is expected to be.
.PP
\fBReadCtrlFile(): cannot read \fIfilename\fP.ctrl\fR
.br
The control file named in the error message exists but cannot
be read.
.PP
.B "setld: Sorry, You may not delete the \fIdescription\fB (\fIsubset\fB) subset"
.br
The
.I subset
in the error message which was used as an argument with the
.B \-d
switch is a subset which was marked by its vendor during manufacture
as a subset that cannot be deleted.
In this case, the subset cannot be removed from the system by
.PN setld .
.PP
.B "\fIsubset\fB: deletion declined by subset control program"
.br
The subset named in the error message cannot be deleted because
of the return status of the subset control program. This indicates
that the subset control program provided with this subset has determined
that the subset should not be deleted. This message may be seen
with a diagnostic issued directly from the subset control program.
Consult the documentation accompanying the product.
.PP
.B "Tape Positioning Error"
.br
An error was detected while positioning the tape for a read
operation while using
.PN setld
with either the
.BR \-l , 
.BR \-u ,
or
.B \-x
switches. This can indicate a faulty tape or a transient
tape subsystem error. Check the error log and try the
operation again.
.PP
.B "Error Extracting \fIsubset\fB"
.br
An unrecoverable error has occurred when trying to extract
a subset from the distribution.
.PP
.B "Control Info Error on \fIsubset\fB"
.br
An attempt to access a control or inventory file or subset
control program has failed while extracting subsets.
This may indicate a faulty distribution. Try the operation again.
.PP
.B "\fIsubset\fB: extract checksum error"
.br
A checksum error was detected in the extracted
copy of the
.I subset
subset. This may indicate a transient tape subsystem error.
Check the error log and retry the extract.
.PP
.B "Error contacting server \fIhostname\fB: \fIerror-message\fB"
.br
Attempt to contact installation server
.I hostname
failed. The
.I error-message
provides more information.
.PP
.B "Device \fIlocation\fB not supported for installations."
.br
The
.I location
specified on the command line was not recognized as
a valid input location for a
.BR \-l , 
.BR \-u ,
or 
.B \-x
operation.
.PP
.B "Cannot access /dev/nrmt\fI?\fBh"
.br
The device special file 
\f(CW/dev/nrmt\fI?\fR 
either does not exist or is not a character special file.
Remake the file with
.PN MAKEDEV
and try the operation again.
.PP
.B "\fIsubset\fB: Unknown subset"
.br
A
.I subset
argument that was specified with the
.B \-i
switch does not correspond to any subset known to
the system. Check the command line for spelling errors.
.PP
.B "\fIlocation\fB/instctrl: no such file or directory"
.br
The disk distribution 
.I location 
specified on
the command line does not point to a valid directory.
Check the command line for spelling errors.
.SH Files
.TP 28
.PN /etc/setldlog
Logfile for 
.PN setld 
transactions
.PP
Following files are relative to root-path:
.TP 28
.PN usr/etc/subsets/*.inv
Subset inventory files
.PD 0
.TP
.PN usr/etc/subsets/*.ctrl
Subset control files
.TP
.PN usr/etc/subsets/*.scp
Subset control programs
.TP
.PN usr/etc/subsets/*.lk
Subset installed lock files
.TP
.PN usr/etc/subsets/*.dw
Subset corrupt lock files
.TP
.PN var/adm/install/archive
Update archive directory
.TP
.PN var/adm/install/reference
Update reference directory
.SH See Also
kits(1), fitset(8), frm(8), fverify(8), sysupd(8)
.br
\fIGuide to Preparing Software for Distribution on ULTRIX Systems\fP
