.\" SCCSID: @(#)sizer.8	8.1	9/11/90
.TH sizer 8
.SH Name
sizer \- a program that sizes system hardware
.SH Syntax
.B /etc/sizer
[
.I options
]
.SH Description
.NXR "sizer program"
.NXR "system" "sizing"
The 
.PN sizer 
program reports various items of information about a kernel file 
and the running system.  
It is also used to create a system configuration file in the 
doconfig command.
.SH Options
.IP \fB-b\fR 5
Create a boot command file for the current system disk.  
The
.PN sizer 
program
creates the appropriate 
.PN defboo 
and 
.PN askboo 
command files in 
.PN /usr/sys/*.cons.  
These files can then be used to update the systems console media.  
This only applies for VAX 8600, VAX 780, VAX 6200, and VAX 3400 cpus. 
This also applies for the VAX 750 and VAX 8200 only if the system 
disk is connected to an HSC.
.IP \fB-c\fR
Return the CPU type of the running cpu.
.IP "\fB-t\fR \fItimezone\fP"
Use 
.I timezone
in the config file.
.IP \fB-wt\fR
Returns the workstation display type.
.IP \fB-wu\fR
Returns the workstation display units.
.IP "\fB-k\fR \fIimage\fP"
Use the indicated kernel file instead of 
.PN /vmunix .
This is useful when
the running system is not 
.PN /vmunix
or you wish information about a
system that is not running.
.IP "\fB-n\fR \fIfilename\fP"
Creates a configuration file.  The system must be running the 
.PN /vmunix
kernel unless the 
.PN \-k
option is used. The 
.PN \-n
option creates a configuration file in 
.PN /tmp/filename
and also a file required for 
.PN MAKEDEV 
called 
.PN /tmp/filename.devs .
.IP
NOTE: The user should run 
.PN doconfig
to build a new kernel.
.IP \fB-r\fR
Return only the name of the root device and partition.
.IP \fB-s\fR
Return only the CPU subtype of the running cpu.  This only applies
to VAX cpus. It returns 
following values for the following cpus:
.RS 8
.IP "Returned " 10
.PD 0
.IP Value
\fBCPU\fR
.sp
.IP 11
VAX8800
.IP 10
VAX8700
.IP " 9"
VAX8550
.IP " 8"
VAX8500
.IP " 6"
VAX8300
.IP " 5"
VAX8200
.IP " 4"
VAXstation/MVAX 2000/3100
.IP " 3"
VAX60
.IP " 1"
MVAXII, VAX3x00, VAX62xx
.RE
.PD
.PP
The value 0 is returned for all other cpu types.
.SH Files
.PN /usr/sys/780cons/defboo.cmd
.br
.PN /usr/sys/8200cons/defboo.com
.br
.PN /usr/sys/8600cons/defboo.com
.br
.PN /usr/sys/780cons/askboo.cmd
.br
.PN /usr/sys/8200cons/askboo.com
.br
.PN /usr/sys/8600cons/askboo.com
.SH See Also
config(8), doconfig(8)
.br
.I "ULTRIX Advanced Installation Guide"
