.\" SCCSID: @(#)tftpd.8c	8.1	9/11/90
.TH tftpd 8c
.SH Name
tftpd \- DARPA Trivial File Transfer Protocol (TFTP) server
.SH Syntax
.B /usr/etc/tftpd [ \fB\-r \fIpathname\fR ]
.SH Description
.NXR "tftpd server"
.NXAM "tftpd server" "tftpd program"
.NXS "Trivial File Transfer Protocol server" "tftpd server"
The server,
.PN tftpd ,
supports the DARPA Trivial File Transfer
Protocol (TFTP).  The TFTP server is invoked when
.MS inetd 8c
receives a packet on
the port indicated in the TFTP service description.
The server is not normally started by default from
.MS inetd 8c .
.PP
The use of
.PN tftp
does not require an account or password on the remote system.
Because of the lack of authentication information, 
.PN tftpd
will allow only publicly readable files to be accessed.
This extends the concept of public to include
all users on all hosts that can be reached through the network.
This may not be appropriate on all systems however, and its implications
should be considered before enabling TFTP service.
.PP
The server should have the user ID with the lowest possible privilege.
.SH Options
.IP "\-\fBr \fIpathname\fR" 15
The 
.I pathname
can be the choice of the user.  For example,
.PN /guests/ftp
would allow only files below
.PN /guests/ftp
to be copied using
.PN tftp .
.SH Restrictions
This server is known only to be self consistent,
that is, it operates with the user TFTP program,
.MS tftp 1c .
Because of the unreliability of the transport protocol
(UDP) and the scarcity of TFTP implementations,
it is uncertain whether it really works.
.PP
The search permissions of the directories leading to the files accessed
are not checked.
.SH See Also
tftp(1c), services(5), inetd(8c)
