.\" SCCSID: @(#)trpt.8c	8.1	9/11/90
.TH trpt 8c
.SH Name
trpt \- transliterate protocol trace
.SH Syntax
.B trpt
[
.B \-a
] [
.B \-s
]  [
.B \-t
] [
.B \-j
] [
.B \-p
.I hex-address 
]
[ 
.I system 
[ 
.I core 
] ]
.SH Description
.NXR "trpt command"
.NXAM "setsockopt system call" "trpt command"
.NXS "transliterate protocol trace" "trpt command"
The
.PN trpt
command 
interrogates the buffer of TCP trace records created
when a socket is marked for debugging 
and prints a readable description of these records.
.SH Options
When no options are supplied, 
.PN trpt
prints all the trace records found in the system
grouped according to TCP connection protocol control
block (PCB).  The following options may be used to
alter this behavior:
.IP \-s
In addition to the normal output,
prints a detailed description of the packet
sequencing information.
.IP \-t
In addition to the normal output,
prints the values for all timers at each
point in the trace.
.IP \-j
Gives a list of the protocol control block
addresses for which there are trace records.
.IP \-p
Shows only trace records associated with the protocol
control block whose address follows.
.IP \-a
In addition to the normal output,
prints the values of the source and destination
addresses for each packet recorded.
.PP
The recommended use of
.PN trpt
is to isolate 
the problem and enable debugging on the
socket(s) involved in the connection.
Find the address of the protocol control blocks
associated with the sockets using the 
.B \-A
option to 
.MS netstat 1 .
Then run
.PN trpt
with the
.B \-p
option, supplying the associated
protocol control block addresses.  If there are
many sockets using the debugging option, the
.B \-j
option may be useful in checking to see if
any trace records are present for the socket in
question.
.PP
If debugging is being performed on a system or
core file other than the default, the last two
arguments may be used to supplant the defaults.
.SH Diagnostics
.B "no namelist"
.br
The system image does not
contain the proper symbols to find the trace buffer.
.PP
Other diagnostic messages are self-explanatory.
.SH Files
.PN /vmunix
.br
.PN/dev/kmem
.SH See Also
netstat(1), setsockopt(2)
