.TH uucico 8
.SH Name
uucico \- uucp file transfer daemon
.SH Syntax
.B /usr/lib/uucp/uucico
[
.B \-f
]
[
.B \-r1
]
[
.B \-s
.I system
]
[
.B \-x#
]
[
.B \-X#
]
.SH Description
.NXR "uucico daemon"
.NXR "network file transfers"
.NXR "file transfers" "uucico"
The 
.PN uucico
program is the daemon associated with the 
.PN uucp
utility. The 
.PN uucico
daemon is automatically run when
.PN uucp
requests are made or when polling occurs as specified in
.PN /etc/crontab .
It performs the actual file transfer over the network. The 
.PN uucico
program first calls up the destination system and login.
After a successful login, a handshake takes place between the destination
.PN uucico
daemon process and the local daemon. The handshake determines 
if each daemon has
permission to use the other's local resources. Both daemons then select the
protocol that will be used to send and receive raw data.
.PP
The local daemon searches the spool directories for job requests, builds
a list of files to transfer, then begins transmitting files. The file
transfer protocol ensures that each file is transmitted only once and
also notifies the user if a file cannot be transferred. After the 
.PN uucico
program transfers all the files, the destination site transfers files
back to the local system. When both systems have completed their file
transfers, the connection through the network is terminated.
.PP
The output of
.PN uucico
follows the progress of the conversation. Debugging output from the slave
.PN uucico
is placed in the file
.PN AUDIT ,
in the spool directory at the remote site. The output is 
less meaningful than the
.PN LOGFILE ,
unless the source code is available to help interpret the messages.
.SH Options
.IP \-f 6
Forces
.PN uucico
to start a conversation with a specified system, regardless of any
previous connection status as provided by the 
.PN STST .
files (system status).
.IP \-r1 
Puts 
.PN uucico
into the master role. The slave mode is the default.
.IP "\fB-s\fR \fIsystem\fP"
Designates the system to be contacted.
.IP \-x#
Sets the debugging level. The number sign (#)
can have a value of 0 to 9. The higher the number, the more debugging
output. No packet level debugging is printed.
.IP \-X#
Sets packet level debugging output. The number sign (#)
can have a value of 0 to 9. The higher the number, the more packet level
debugging output.
.SH Files
.PN /usr/spool/uucp
.br
.PN /usr/spool/uucp/STST .
.br
.PN /usr/spool/uucp/LOGFILE
.br
.PN /usr/spool/uucp/AUDIT
.br
.PN /usr/lib/uucp/uucp.*
.SH See Also
uucp(1c), uux(1c)
.br
.I "Guide to the uucp Utility"
