.\" SCCSID: @(#)uumonitor.8c	8.1	9/11/90
.TH uumonitor 8c
.SH Name
uumonitor \- monitor the UUCP system
.SH Syntax
.B uumonitor
.SH Description
.NXR "uumonitor program"
.NXAM "uucp utility" "uumonitor program"
The
.PN uumonitor
command displays a synopsis in tabular format of the current UUCP
status.  The format of each line is as follows:
.PP
.sp
.I system_name  
#C #X  
.I most_recent_status  
CNT:#    
.I time
.sp
In the format of this line,
.IP \fIsystem_name\fP 15
is the remote system for which the entry applies.
.IP \fB#C\fP
is the number of C.files queued for the remote system.
.IP \fB#X\fP 
is the number of requests for remote execution from the
remote system.
.IP \fImost_recent_status\fP
is the result of the most recent attempt to connect to the
remote system.
.IP \fBCNT:#\fP
is the number of times that a failure to log in to the remote
system has occurred.  This does NOT include the number failed 
dial attempts.  
.IP \fItime\fP
is the time of the last status entry was made for this system.
.PP
.PP
The
.PN uumonitor
command is helpful for detecting systems that have
backlogs, that have gone away for awhile, that have changed 
phone numbers, and so forth.  
The CNT: field is useful for detecting a system whose login/passwd
has changed. 
If the CNT: field gets larger than the maximum allowable failures
(currently 20),
no further attempts to connect to this system are made.
If the number of C.files queued starts getting unusually large
(depending on the system anywhere from 100-1000),
action should be taken to determine the cause of the backlog.
.SH See Also
uucp(1c)
