.\" SCCSID: @(#)ypmake.8yp	8.1	9/11/90
.TH ypmake 8yp
.SH Name
ypmake \- rebuild yellow pages (YP) database using the make command
.SH Syntax
.nf
.B cd /etc/yp
.fi
.B make 
[ 
.I options 
] 
[
.I map
] 
.SH Description
.NXR "ypmake command"
.NXAM "make command (general)" "ypmake command"
.NXR "YP data base lookup service" "rebuilding data base"
The 
.PN make
command uses the 
.PN /etc/yp/Makefile
to build the yellow pages database.
With no arguments,
.PN make
creates
.PN dbm
databases for any YP maps that are out-of-date,
and then executes
.MS yppush 8yp 
to notify slave databases that there has been a change.
It is important to note that the
.PN ypmake 
command should only be executed at a YP master server machine.  If it
is executed from either a slave server or a pure YP client machine, the
created changes will only be overwritten when the next YP master server
machine update, using
.PN ypxfr , 
is performed. 
.PP
The 
.I options 
argument can be used to change the default values of
three special variables used by 
.PN make :
.I DIR , 
.I NOPUSH , 
and 
.I DOM .
The 
.I DIR 
variable instructs 
.PN make
to give the directory of the source files.
The 
.I NOPUSH 
variable, which when non-null, inhibits updating of the new data
base files using the
.MS yppush 8yp
function.
The 
.I DOM 
variable, instructs
.PN make 
to construct a domain
other than the master's default domain.
The default for 
.I DIR 
is
.PN /etc ,
and the default for 
.I NOPUSH 
is the null string.
To change the default values of these special variables, an 
.I options
argument format of 
.I special_variable = value
is used.  See the Examples section for an example.
.PP
The
.I map
argument supplied on the command line instructs
.PN make
to update only the specified map.
The specified maps are those located at
.PN /etc/yp/{domain},
where {domain} is the yellow pages domain name.
Some typical entries for the
.I map 
argument are passwd, hosts, and networks.
Typing
.PN "make passwd"
causes
.PN make 
to create and update the YP password database, if it is out of date.
The 
.PN make
command updates the password data base using 
.MS yppush 8yp .
Therefore, typing 
.EX
make host
.EE
or
.EX
make networks
.EE
causes 
.PN make 
to create and to update
the host and network files,
.PN /etc/hosts
and
.PN /etc/networks 
respectively.
.PP
See
.MS ypfiles 5yp
and
.MS ypserv 8yp
for an overview of the yellow pages.
.SH Examples
This example causes 
.PN make 
to create a password yellow pages map for the domain
.PN NewDomain
instead of for the default domain:
.EX
make DOM=NewDomain passwd
.EE
.SH See Also
make(1), makedbm(8yp), ypserv(8yp), yppush(8yp)
