.TH mailaddr 7
.SH Name
mailaddr \- mail addressing description
.SH Description
.NXAM "mail program" "mailaddr keyword"
.NXAM "mail program" "sendmail program"
.NXR "mailaddr keyword"
.NXB "mail" "address protocol"
Mail addresses are based on the ARPANET protocol
listed in the SEE ALSO section of this reference page.
In addition, the DECnet address format can be used, if DECnet is
installed on your system.
.PP
To send mail to DECnet users, use the following address format:
.EX
nodename::username
.EE
In this case, 
.I nodename 
is the name of the DECnet system, or host, on which the 
target user resides.
.PP
Addresses based on the ARPANET protocol use the 
following general format:
.EX
user@domain
.EE
A domain is a hierarchical dot-separated list of subdomains.
For example, the following address is interpreted from right to left:
.EX
eric@monet.Berkeley.ARPA
.EE
In the previous example, the message is directed to the ARPA name tables
(which do not correspond exactly to the physical ARPANET).  The
message then proceeds to the Berkeley
gateway, after which it is directed to the local host 
.PN monet .
When the message reaches 
.PN monet , 
it is delivered to the user 
.PN eric .
.PP
Unlike some other forms of addressing, this does not imply any routing.
Thus, an address that is specified as an ARPA address
can travel by an alternate route if that route is more convenient
or efficient.  For example, from Berkeley, the message could go
directly to 
.PN monet 
over the Ethernet,
rather than using the Berkeley ARPANET gateway.
.PP
.B Abbreviations.
.NXR "mail" "abbreviating address"
In some instances, you do not have to type an entire domain name.
Generally, any information that follows the first dot may be omitted
if the sending and receiving domains are the same.
For example, a user on calder.Berkeley.ARPA can eliminate the .Berkeley.ARPA
when sending to eric@monet, because the sending and receiving
hosts are the same.
.PP 
Other abbreviations are permitted when conflicts do not exist.
For example, Berkeley ARPANET hosts can be accessed without
adding the .ARPA, if their names do not conflict with a local
host name.
.PP 
.B Compatible Addresses.
.NXR "mail" "compatible addresses"
To provide compatibility with the previous mail system, some
old address formats are converted to the new
format.  In particular, host::user is converted to user@host
providing consistency with the 
.MS rcp 1c
command.  
.PP 
The syntax host!user is converted to user@host.UUCP.
Before being sent on, user@host.UUCP is normally converted back to the 
host!user form. This conversion is done for compatibility 
with older UUCP hosts.
.PP 
The current implementation cannot automatically route messages
through the UUCP network.
.NXR "mail" "uucp and"
Thus, you must explicitly tell the mail system
all the hosts your messages must be sent through
to arrive at its final destination.
.PP
.B Case Distinctions.
Domain names (that is, anything following the at sign (@))
can be a combination of upper- and lowercase characters
with the exception of UUCP hostnames.
Most hosts accept both upper- and lowercase in user names,
with the exception of MULTICS sites.
.PP
.B Differences with ARPA Protocols.
.NXR "mail" "ARPA protocol and"
Although the UNIX addressing scheme
is based on the ARPA mail addressing protocols,
there are some significant differences.
.PP 
Currently, the only top level domain defined by ARPA is the \.ARPA 
domain itself.
This is further restricted to having only one level of host specifier.
That is,
the addresses that ARPA accepts must be in the format
user@host.ARPA (where `host' is one word).
For example, the following address is not legal under the
ARPA protocols:
.EX
eric@monet.Berkeley.ARPA
.EE
Thus, the previous address would be converted to a different
format on output to the ARPANET.  For example:
.EX
eric%monet@Berkeley.ARPA
.EE
.B Route-addrs.
.NXR "mail" "routing"
In some instances, a message must be routed through several hosts
to reach its final destination.  Usually, this action is invisible
to the sender; however, it is sometimes desirable to route
a message manually.  Addresses that are moved manually are
called route-addrs.  The syntax is as follows:
.EX
<@hosta,@hostb:user@hostc>
.EE
The previous example directs the message to 
.IR hosta ,
to 
.IR hostb , 
and finally to 
.IR hostc .  
This route is used regardless of
a more efficient path to hostc.
.PP 
Route-addrs occur frequently on return addresses,
because they are generally augmented by the software
at each host.
It is possible to ignore all but the user@host
part of the address to determine the actual sender.
.PP
.B Postmaster.
.NXR "postmaster" "defined"
Every site must have a user or user alias
designated as postmaster to which problems with the mail system can
be addressed.
.PP
.B CSNET.
.NXR "CSNET site" "sending mail to"
To send messages to CSNET, use the following syntax:
.EX
user.host@UDel-Relay
.EE
.SH See Also
mail(1), sendmail(8)
.br
Crocker, D. H.,
Standard for the Format of Arpa Internet Text Messages, RFC822
.\"This cross-reference is valid and should stay in manual page.
.NXE "mail" "address protocol"
