.\" SCCSID: @(#)man.7	8.6	2/26/91
.TH man 7
.SH Name
man \- the man macro package for online reference pages
.SH Syntax
.B tbl
.I file...
.B | nroff
[
.BI \-n N
] [
.B \-rl1
]
.B \-man | col | ...
.br
.B tbl
.I file...
.B | *troff
[
.BI \-n N
] [
.B \-rl1
]
.B \-man | ...
.SH Description
.NXAM "man command" "man macro package"
.NXAM "troff text processor" "man macro package"
.NXAM "nroff text processor" "man macro package"
.NXR "man macro package"
.NXB "man macro package"
.NXR "manual page" "formatting"
The
.PN man
macro package is used to format reference manual pages for online viewing
or printing.
.if t .ig
This reference page was formatted by the
.MS nroff 1
command and the
.PN man
macros, or was
..
.if n .ig
The installed reference pages are
..
formatted by the
.MS man 1
and the
.MS catman 8
commands, using the
.PN man
macro package.
..
.PP
The page size is 80 columns by 66 lines for
.PN nroff
output and is 8.5" x 11" when formatted with 
.PN *troff
text formatters.  Page numbers appear at the bottom of each output page with
odd page numbers appearing on the right side and even page numbers appearing
on the left side.
.PP
The format of the ULTRIX online reference pages is determined by the
.MS man.repro 7
macro package.  The
.PN man
macros are a compatible subset of the
.PN man.repro
macros.
.SS Macros
.NXB "man macro package" "macros"
The following describes the macros in the
.PN man
macro package.
.PP
Any
.I text
argument
can range from zero to six words.
Quotation marks (" ") can be used to include blanks in words.
If 
.I text
is not specified,
special treatment is applied to
the next input line that has text to be printed.
In this way,
.PN \&.I
can be used to italicize a whole line or
.PN \&.SM
followed by
.PN \&.B
to make small bold letters.
.PP
A prevailing indent distance is remembered between
successive indented paragraphs,
and is reset to a default value upon reaching a nonindented paragraph.
Default units for indents
.I i
are ens (an en is 1 
.PN nroff
character or 1/2 em space in current point size).
.PP
Typeface and size are reset to default values
before each paragraph, and after processing
font and size setting macros.
.PP
.IP "\&.B [ \fItext...\fR ]" 12
Sets text \fItext\fR in boldface.  If no text is specified, the next text line
is set in boldface.
.IP "\&.BI \fIword1 word2\fR [ \fIwords...\fR ]"
Sets \fIword1\fR in boldface, \fIword2\fR in an italic typeface, and then
alternates between these two fonts for the remaining words, up to six
words.  Blanks between words are stripped unless the string is enclosed
in quotation marks (" ").
.IP "\&.BR \fIword1 word2\fR [ \fIwords...\fR ]"
Sets \fIword1\fR in boldface, \fIword2\fR in a roman typeface, and
then alternates
between these two fonts for the remaining words, up to six words.
Blanks between words are stripped unless the string is enclosed
in quotation marks (" ").
.IP "\&.CT \fIcharacter\fR"
Prints the keyboard control character indicator
.CT \fIcharacter\fP
\&.  For example,
.PN "\&.CT A"
prints as
.CT A
\&.
.IP \&.CW
Sets text in constant width font until another font change is found.
.IP \&.De
Ends an unfilled display block (started by
.PN \&.Ds ).  
Also ends automatic centering, if it was in effect.
.IP \&.Ds
Starts an unfilled display block.  Text between
.PN \&.Ds
and
.PN \&.De
is printed in a roman typeface,
with `no fill' mode (no wrapping and blank lines allowed) in effect.
The display block is set flush left.
.IP \&.DT
Restores default tabs.  Default tabs are set to 
\&.5 inches, starting with \&.5i, 1i, \&... .
.IP \&.EE
Ends an example and restores basic text defaults and indents.
.IP "\&.EX [ \fIi\fR ]"
Starts an example.  Text between 
.PN \&.EX
and
.PN \&.EE
is printed in a constant width
font with `no fill' mode (no wrapping and blank lines allowed) in effect.
The example is set flush left unless an indent \fIi\fR is specified.  Units
of \fIi\fR are ens.
.IP "\&.G [ \fItext...\fR ]"
Sets \fItext\fR in a sans-serif typeface.  If no text is specified, 
the next text line is set in a sans-serif typeface.
.IP "\&.GL [ \fItext...\fR ]"
Sets \fItext\fR in a sans-serif italic typeface.  If no text is specified,
the next text line is set in a sans-serif italic typeface.
.IP "\&.HB [ \fIwords...\fR ]"
Sets the text in underline mode or in a sans-serif bold typeface, depending on
the type of text formatter 
.Pn ( nroff
or
.PN troff ).
If the text formatter is of type
.PN nroff ,
the next 999 input lines are formatted in underline mode 
.Pn ( nroff
italic mode), or all the lines up to a font change are formatted in
underline mode, depending on which limit is encountered first.
If the text formatter is of type
.PN troff ,
text is set in a sans-serif bold typeface until a font change is
encountered.  Up to nine words can also be specified as arguments.
.IP "\&.HP [\|\fIi\fP\|]\fR"
Begins a paragraph with a hanging indent of \fIi\fR ens.
.IP "\&.I [ \fItext...\fR ]"
Sets \fItext\fR in an italic typeface.  If no text is specified, the next text
line is set in an italic typeface.
.IP "\&.I1 \fIword\fR"
Sets a temporary indent to the length of the specified word.
.IP "\&.I2 \fIword\fR"
Reverses one line and then sets a temporary indent to the length of 
the specified word.
.IP "\&.IB \fIword1 word2\fR [ \fIwords...\fR ]"
Sets \fIword1\fR in an italic typeface, \fIword2\fR in boldface, and then
alternates between these two fonts for the remaining words, up to six
words.  Blanks between words are stripped unless the string is enclosed
in quotation marks (" ").
.IP "\&.IP \fIx \fP[\|\fIi\fP\|]\fR"
Sets the prevailing indent to \fIi\fR.  Then begins the indented
paragraph with a hanging tag given by the next text line.  If the tag
does not fit, the macro places the next text on a separate line.
Tag \fIx\fR appears in bold typeface.
.IP "\&.IR \fIword1 word2\fR [ \fIwords...\fR ]"
Sets \fIword1\fR in an italic typeface, \fIword2\fR in a roman typeface, 
and then alternates between these two fonts for the remaining 
words, up to six words.  Blanks between words are stripped unless the
string is enclosed in quotation marks (" ").
.IP \&.LP
Same as the
.PN \&.PP
macro.  This macro is obsolete, but is provided for backwards
compatibility.
.IP "\&.MS \fIreference_page section_subsection\fR [ \fIpunctuation\fR ]"
Sets \fIreference_page\fR immediately followed by \fIsection_subsection\fR in
parentheses
followed by optional \fIpunctuation\fR, using fonts that distinguish this
reference page reference from ordinary text.  For example,
.MS manual section .
.IP \&.NE
Ends a note. Also cancels automatic centering if it was in effect.
.IP "\&.NT [ \fIheader1\fR ] [ \fBC\fR ]"
.ns
.IP "\&.NT [ \fBC\fR ] [ \fIheader2\fR ]" 12
Starts a note.  If no arguments are specified, the default header for the
note is `Note'.
If the first argument is the letter `C',
all text in the note is
centered, for the next 99 text lines or until the
.PN \&.NE
macro is called, whichever comes first.  
If the first argument is not `C', it becomes the header of the
note, even if \fIheader2\fR is also specified.  
The \fIheader2\fR argument becomes the
header of the note if the first argument is `C'.
.IP "\&.PD [ \fIv\fR ]"
Sets the interparagraph distance to \fIv\fR vertical spaces.  Resets 
the distance to the default value if \fIv\fP is omitted.
.IP "\&.PN \fIx\fR [ \fIy\fR ]"
Sets \fIx\fR in an italic or constant width typeface (depending on
the 
.PN *roff
formatter type) and then reverts to the previous typeface.
The optional argument \fIy\fR is appended to \fIx\fR with
no space, but printed in the previous typeface. 
The \fIx\fR argument is usually a path name;
\fIy\fR is usually punctuation.
.IP "\&.Pn \fIx y\fR [ \fIz\fR ]"
Sets \fIx\fR in the current typeface, sets \fIy\fR in an italic or constant
width typeface (depending on the 
.PN *roff
formatter type) and appends it to \fIx\fR, and finally
reverts to the previous typeface. 
The optional argument \fIz\fR is appended to \fIy\fR, but printed in the
previous typeface.  Spaces are removed between \fIx\fR, \fIy\fR, and \fIz\fR,
unless quotation marks (" ") are used to enclose strings with spaces.
The \fIx\fR argument is usually a fixed path name; \fIy\fR is
usually a variable path name; and \fIz\fR is usually punctuation.
.IP \&.PP
Starts a block paragraph.  Sets the prevailing indent to \&.5i for
.PN nroff 
and four picas for
.PN *troff 
text formatters.
.IP \&.R
Sets the text in a roman typeface until another font change is encountered.  
Also ends
.PN nroff
underline mode if it was in effect.
.IP "\&.RB \fIword1 word2\fR [ \fIwords...\fR ]"
Sets \fIword1\fR in a roman typeface, \fIword2\fR in boldface, and 
then alternates between these two fonts for the remaining 
words, up to six words.
Blanks between words are stripped unless the string is enclosed in
quotation marks (" ").
.IP "\&.RE [ \fIk\fR ]"
Returns to the \fIk\fRth relative right shift indent level.  (Restores the left
margin to the position prior to the \fIk\fRth
.PN \&.RS
call).  Specifying \fIk\fR=0 is equivalent to specifying \fIk\fR=1.  
If \fIk\fR is omitted,
.PN \&.RE
restores the left margin to the most recent previous position.  
When \fIk\fR=1 or 0,
the default 
.PN \&.RS
indent increment is restored.
.IP "\&.RI \fIword1 word2\fR [ \fIwords...\fR ]"
Sets \fIword1\fR in a roman typeface, \fIword2\fR in an italic typeface, and 
then alternates between these two fonts for the remaining words, up to six
words.  Blanks between words are stripped unless the string is enclosed
in quotation marks (" ").
.IP \&.RN
Prints the return character indicator,
.RN
\&.
.IP "\&.RS [ \fIi\fR ]"
Shifts the left margin to the right (relatively) the amount of \fIi\fR ens. The
.PN \&.RS
macro calls can be nested up to nine levels.  If \fIi\fR is not specified for
the first
.PN \&.RS
call, the relative right shift increases \&.5 inch for
.PN nroff ,
and four picas for
.PN *troff 
text formatters.
Nested
.PN \&.RS
calls increment the relative indent by \fIi\fR ens, or by \&.2 inch for
.PN nroff ,
or by 2 picas for
.PN *troff 
text formatters.
.IP "\&.SH \fItext\fR"
Creates a section header.
.IP "\&.SM [ \fItext\fR ]"
Sets \fItext\fR to be two points smaller than the current point size.  If no 
text is specified, the next text line is set in the smaller point size.
.IP "\&.SS \fItext\fR"
Creates a subsection header.
.IP "\&.TB [ \fIwords...\fR ]"
Same as the 
.PN \&.HB
macro.  This macro is obsolete, but is provided for backwards
compatibility.
.IP "\&.TH \fIn c\fR[\fIs\fR] [ \fIa\fR ] [ \fIf\fR ] [ \fIx\fR ]"
Begins a new reference page and sets the page title.  Also sets up headers
and footers for output pages, sets up all defaults and traps, and calls the
.PN \&.DT
and 
.PN \&.PD
macros.  The title appears as
a header on all pages of the formatted reference page. The
\fIn\fR argument is the reference page name.  
The \fIc\fR argument is the primary section number or letter.
The \fIs\fR argument is the subsection, if any.
The \fIa\fR argument is for an optional machine architecture specific label;
for example ``VAX''.
The \fIf\fR argument optionally alters a portion of the page footer. 
The \fIx\fR argument is for optional extra commentary; 
for example ``Unsupported''.
.IP
Fields \fIn\fR, \fIc\fR, and \fIs\fR appear together at the top of each
output page (see the top
of this page for an example).  These fields alternate between the right top
and left top of a page header, corresponding to odd and even page numbers.
Field \fIa\fR appears opposing the page name in the header when formatted
with
.PN nroff ,
but appears as a bleed tab when formatted with 
.PN *troff 
text formatters.
The \fIf\fR argument appears in the page footer on the inside 
edge of the page (left for
odd page numbers, right for even).  
The \fIx\fR argument appears underneath the page
name in the header.
.IP
The last three fields are optional.  To skip a field, specify a pair of
quotation marks ("") in the field to be skipped.
.IP "\&.TP [\|\fIi\fP\|]\fR"
Sets the prevailing indent to \fIi\fR.  Then begins the indented
paragraph with a hanging tag given by the next text line.  If the tag
does not fit, the macro places the next text on a separate line.
.IP \&.VE
End a vertical margin bar.
.IP "\&.VS [ 4 ]"
Starts a vertical margin bar, if `4' is specified; otherwise, the
macro does nothing.
.PP
.NXE "man macro package" "macros"
.SS Macros That Cause Line Breaks
The following macros cause line breaks:
.RS
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
l l l l l l.
De@Ds@EE@EX@HP@IP
LP@PP@RE@SH@SS@TH
TP
.TE
.PP
.RE
.SS Macros That Need Text Lines
The following macros affect the following line of text if they are specified
in the input without arguments:
.RS
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
l l l l l l.
B@BI@BR@G@GL@I
IB@IR@RI@RB@SH@SS
SM
.TE
.PP
.RE
.TP
.SS Defaults
Automatic hyphenation is turned on. However, \fIlast\fP lines (ones that will
cause a trap) are not hyphenated and the last and first two characters of
a word are not split off.
.PP
Characters printed from the Special Font are artificially bolded by three units
whenever the current font is `3'.
.PP
The default page size is 80 columns by 66 lines for
.PN nroff
output and 8.5" x 11" for output generated by
.PN *troff 
text formatters.
The text area is horizontally placed on the page so that the effective page
margin is
\&.3 inches for
.PN nroff 
and 7.5 picas for
.PN *troff
text formatters.
.PP
The
.PN \&.TH
macro sets up the following defaults:
.IP \(bu 4
Text is set in ``noadjust'' mode; the right margin is ragged.
.IP \(bu 4
The default interparagraph distance is 1v for
.PN nroff 
and \&.5v for
.PN *troff
text formatters.
.IP \(bu 4
The basic text indent is \&.5 inches for
.PN nroff 
and four picas for
.PN *troff
text formatters, from the left margin.
.IP \(bu 4
The maximum text line length is 7.4 inches for
.PN nroff 
and 36 picas for
.PN *troff
text formatters.
.IP \(bu 4
Sets tab stops every \&.5 inches.
.IP \(bu 4
The basic text point size is 11 points, with line spacing set to 12 points.
.IP \(bu 4
The basic text font is ``R'' (a roman typeface).
.IP \(bu 4
Reference page headers, section headers, and subsection headers are set
in a sans-serif bold typeface.
.SH Options
.IP \-n\fIN\fP 12
Numbers the first generated page as
.IR N .
.IP \-rl1
Turns on line double-spacing mode.
.SH Restrictions
.SS Predefined Registers
The following registers are predefined by the
.PN man
macro package and should not be changed:
.IP PO 12
Page offset and page margin
.IP IN
Left margin indent relative to the section headers
.IP LL
Line length including
.PN IN 
.IP PL
Page length
.PP
The register `l' is predefined when you specify the
.PN *roff
.PN \-rl
option. Its default value is 0.  The
.MS man 1
command does not use this option.
.SS Reserved Registers
The following registers are reserved for internal use by the
.PN man ,
.PN man.nopage ,
and
.PN man.repro
macro packages:
.RS
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
l l l l l l.
A1@DX@EX@l@p@p#
PF
.TE
.PP
.RE
In addition, registers beginning with the characters
`)', `]', and `}' are also reserved for internal use.
.\"
.\" At this moment the following registers are internally used:
.\" 	}W }L PO ]C ]T
.\"	p#
.\"	)I )R )E )P
.\"	)p ][1-9] )[1-9]
.\"	EX PF
.\" p is reserved for \-rpS \-man.nopage and \-man.repro use.
.\"
.PP
Registers predefined by the
.MS nroff 1 ,
.MS tbl 1 ,
commands, and the
.PN *eqn
and
.PN *troff
text preprocessors and formatters should not be redefined.
.SS Predefined Strings
The following strings are predefined by the
.PN man
macro package and should not be changed:
.IP lq 12
.ie n \{\
\&\*(lq if
.PN nroff ,
\&`` if
.PN *troff
.\}
.el \{\
\&" if
.PN nroff ,
\&\*(lq if
.PN *troff
.\}
.IP rq
.ie n \{\
\&\*(rq if
.PN nroff ,
\&'' if
.PN *troff
.\}
.el \{\
\&" if
.PN nroff ,
\&\*(rq if
.PN *troff
.\}
.IP S
Command string to change type size to 10 points.
.SS Reserved Strings and Macros
The following string and macro names are reserved for internal use by the
.PN man ,
.PN man.nopage ,
and
.PN man.repro
macro packages:
.RS
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
l l l l l l.
##@A1@BD@BK@CD@D
DE@DS@HH@ID@LD@NO
NX@P@UF@ya@yn@yl
ys
.TE
.PP
.RE
In addition, names beginning with the characters
`)', `]', and `}' are also reserved for internal use.
.\"
.\" At this moment the following strings, macros, diversions are internally
.\" used:
.\"	]I ]R 
.\"	}1 }2
.\"	}E }F }f }H }K }M }N }S }X
.\"	]B ]D ]H ]L ]W ]X
.\"	]I ]R
.\"	}C
.\"	]F \" inside }S macro
.\"	]i ]r
.\"	D \fI?\fPD
.\" ]S is defined in man.nopage and man.repro
.\" ]T is defined in man.repro
.\" NX is defined in man.repro
.\"	## A1 HH ya yn yl ys are defined in other tools
.\"	BK is defined in man.repro for use by another tool
.\" UF is defined in man.repro
.\" D, ID, CD, LD, BD are reserved in case we need to add full DS/DE
.\"  support
.\" DS/DE are reserved in case we need backwards compatibility with BSD.
.\" P is reserved in case we need backwards compatibility with BSD and SysV.
.\"	f.	\" defined by tbl
.\"
.PP
Names predefined by the
.MS nroff 1 ,
.MS tbl 1 ,
commands, and the
.PN *eqn
and
.PN *troff
text preprocessors and formatters should not be redefined.
.SS \&.TH Macro Restrictions
The section number should only be 1-8, `n', `l', `o', or `p'.
Other values might not be recognized by the 
.MS man 1
or
.MS catman 8
commands.
.PP
Sections 6, 7, `n', `l', `o', and `p' do not currently have subsections,
so subsections should not be specified.
.PP
The architecture field (\fIa\fP) should not exceed four characters.  A value
longer than four characters might print outside the right page margin.
.PP
Reference pages containing
.PN *eqn
commands should be preprocessed by
an
.PN *neqn
text preprocessor before being installed on the system.
.PP
Reference pages containing
.MS tbl 1
commands must not be preprocessed before being installed on the system.
.SS The Name Section
The
.MS catman 8
command assumes the Name section of a reference page has the
following format:
.EX
name[, name, name ...] \\- explanatory text
.EE
There should be at least one space after any comma and only one space
following the ``backslash hyphen'' (\\-).
There should not be
any
.PN *roff
commands in the explanatory text.  The explanatory text should be brief.
The
.MS catman 8
command combines information in the Name section with parameters of the
.PN \&.TH
macro to create an entry in a database searched by the
.MS apropos 1 ,
.MS man 1 ,
and 
.MS whatis 1
commands.
.SH Portability Considerations
The ULTRIX
.PN man
macro packages contain extensions and enhancements borrowed from
other macro packages.  If you have a need to write portable reference pages,
you should not use the following macros:
.RS
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
l l l l l l.
CT@CW@De@Ds@EE@EX
G@GL@HB@I1@I2@LP
MS@NE@NT@PN@Pn@R
RN@TB@UF
.TE
.PP
.RE
The
.PN LP 
and
.PN TB
macros are obsolete.
.PP
The ULTRIX
.PN man
.PN \&.TH
macro differs from other implementations of the 
.PN \&.TH
macro.  The primary differences are in the placement of the page title,
and third and fifth fields in the
.PN *roff
output.
The page title (the page name and section number) is commonly placed on
both sides of the page header in other implementations.
The more common placement of the third field is
in the center of the page footer.  The more common placement
of the fifth field is in the center of the page header.
.PP
The 
.PN \&.TH 
macro permits the use of the percent (%) character in any 
of its fields.  The presence of the percent character may cause
problems for other implementations of this macro.
.PP
Use of the
.MS tbl 1
and
.PN *eqn
commands should be avoided, because the version of the
.MS man 1
command in some other implementations might not preprocess reference
pages through the
.MS tbl 1
command.  The
.PN *eqn
commands also might not be installed.
.SH Files
.TP 27
.PN /usr/lib/tmac/tmac.an
The
.PN man
macro package file
.br
.SH See Also
col(1), man(1), nroff(1), tbl(1), man.nopage(7), man.repro(7), catman(8)
.NXE "man macro package"
