.TH me 7
.SH Name
me \- macros for formatting papers
.SH Syntax
.B "nroff \-me"
[ 
.I options 
]
.I file ... 
.br
.B "*roff \-me"
[ 
.I options 
]
.I file ... 
.SH Description
.NXAM "*roff text processor" "me macro package"
.NXAM "nroff text processor" "me macro package"
.NXR "me macro package"
.NXR "technical paper" "formatting"
This package of 
.PN nroff
and
.PN *roff
macro definitions provides a formatting facility for technical 
papers in various formats.
When producing 2-column output on a terminal, filter
the output through 
.MS col 1 .
.PP
Many
.PN nroff
and
.PN *roff
requests are unsafe in conjunction with
this package; however, these requests can be used with
impunity after the first .pp:
.nf
.IP
.ta \w'.sz +n  'u
\&.bp	Begin new page
\&.br	Break output line here
\&.sp n	Insert n spacing lines
\&.ls n	Line spacing: n=1 single, n=2 double space
\&.na	No alignment of right margin
\&.ce n	Center next n lines
\&.ul n	Underline next n lines
\&.sz +n	Add n to point size
.fi
.PP
Output of the
.PN eqn ,
.PN neqn ,
.PN refer ,
and
.PN tbl
preprocessors
for equations and tables is acceptable as input.
.SH Requests 
.NXR(t) "me macro package" "requests"
In the following list,
\*(lqinitialization\*(rq
refers to the first .pp, .lp, .ip, .np, .sh, or .uh macro.
This list is incomplete;
see the
"\-me Reference Manual", 
\fISupplementary Documents, Volume 1: General User\fP,
for further details.
.PP
.ta \w'.eh \'x\'y\'z\'  'u +\w'Initial 'u +\w'Cause 'u
.br
.di x
			\ka
.br
.di
.in \nau
.ti0
\fBRequest	Initial	Cause	Explanation
.ti0
	Value	Break\fR
.br
.in \nau
.ti0
\&.(b	-	yes	Begin block.
.ti0
\&.(c	-	yes	Begin centered block.
.ti0
\&.(d	-	no	Begin delayed text.
.ti0
\&.(f	-	no	Begin footnote.
.ti0
\&.(l	-	yes	Begin list.
.ti0
\&.(q	-	yes	Begin major quote.
.ti0
\&.(x \fIx\fR	-	no	Begin indexed item in index.
.I x
.ti0
\&.(z	-	no	Begin floating keep.
.ti0
\&.)b	-	yes	End block.
.ti0
\&.)c	-	yes	End centered block.
.ti0
\&.)d	-	yes	End delayed text.
.ti0
\&.)f	-	yes	End footnote.
.ti0
\&.)l	-	yes	End list.
.ti0
\&.)q	-	yes	End major quote.
.ti0
\&.)x	-	yes	End index item.
.ti0
\&.)z	-	yes	End floating keep.
.ti 0
\&.++ \fIm H\fR	-	no	Define paper section.
.I m
defines the part of the paper, and can be
.PN C
(chapter),
.PN A
(appendix),
.PN P
(preliminary; for example, an abstract, table of contents, and so on),
.PN B
(bibliography),
.PN RC
(chapters renumbered from page one each chapter),
or
.PN RA
(appendix renumbered from page one).
.ti 0
\&.+c \fIT\fR	-	yes	Begin chapter (or appendix, etc., as
set by .++).
.I T
is the chapter title.
.ti0
\&.1c	1	yes	One-column format on a new page.
.ti0
\&.2c	1	yes	Two-column format.
.ti0
\&.EN	-	yes	Space after equation
produced by
.I eqn
or
.IR neqn .
.ti0
\&.EQ \fIx y\fR	-	yes	Precede equation; break out and
add space.
Equation number is
.IR y .
The optional argument \fIx\fR
may be
.I I
to indent equation (default),
.I L
to left-adjust the equation, or
.I C
to center the equation.
.ti0
\&.TE	-	yes	End table.
.ti0
\&.TH	-	yes	End heading section of table.
.ti0
\&.TS \fIx\fR	-	yes	Begin table; if \fIx\fR is
.PN H ,
table has repeated heading.
.ti 0
\&.ac \fIA N\fR	-	no	Set up for ACM style output.
.I A
is the Author's name(s),
.I N
is the total number of pages.
Must be given before the first initialization.
.ti0
\&.b \fIx\fR	no	no	Print
.I x
in boldface; if there is no argument, switch to boldface.
.ti 0
\&.ba \fI+n\fR	0	yes	Augments the base indent by
.I n.
This indent is used to set the indent on regular text
(like paragraphs).
.ti0
\&.bc	no	yes	Begin new column.
.ti0
\&.bi \fIx\fR	no	no	Print
.I x
in bold italics (nofill only).
.ti0
\&.bx \fIx\fR	no	no	Print \fIx\fR in a box (nofill only).
.ti 0
\&.ef \fI\'x\'y\'z\'\fR	\'\'\'\'	no	Set even footer to x  y  z.
.ti 0
\&.eh \fI\'x\'y\'z\'\fR	\'\'\'\'	no	Set even header to x  y  z.
.ti 0
\&.fo \fI\'x\'y\'z\'\fR	\'\'\'\'	no	Set footer to x  y  z.
.ti 0
\&.hx	-	no	Suppress headers and footers on next page.
.ti0
\&.he \fI\'x\'y\'z\'\fR	\'\'\'\'	no	Set header to x  y  z.
.ti0
\&.hl	-	yes	Draw a horizontal line.
.ti0
\&.i \fIx\fR	no	no	Italicize
.I x;
if
.I x
missing, italic text follows.
.ti0
\&.ip \fIx y\fR	no	yes	Start indented paragraph,
with hanging tag
.IR x .
Indentation is
.I y
ens (default 5).
.ti0
\&.lp	yes	yes	Start left-blocked paragraph.
.ti 0
\&.lo	-	no	Read in a file of local macros of the
form
.BI \&.* x.
Must be given before initialization.
.ti0
\&.np	1	yes	Start numbered paragraph.
.ti 0
\&.of \fI\'x\'y\'z\'\fR	\'\'\'\'	no	Set odd footer to x  y  z.
.ti 0
\&.oh \fI\'x\'y\'z\'\fR	\'\'\'\'	no	Set odd header to x  y  z.
.ti 0
\&.pd	-	yes	Print delayed text.
.ti0
\&.pp	no	yes	Begin paragraph.
First line indented.
.ti0
\&.r	yes	no	Roman text follows.
.ti 0
\&.re	-	no	Reset tabs to default values.
.ti 0
\&.sc	no	no	Read in a file of special characters
and diacritical marks.
Must be given before initialization.
.ti0
\&.sh \fIn x\fR	-	yes	Section head follows,
font automatically bold.
.I n
is level of section,
.I x
is title of section.
.ti 0
\&.sk	no	no	Leave the next page blank.
Only one page is remembered ahead.
.ti 0
\&.sz \fI+n\fR	10p	no	Augment the point size by
.I n
points.
.ti 0
\&.th	no	no	Produce the paper in thesis format.
Must be given before initialization.
.ti 0
\&.tp	no	yes	Begin title page.
.ti0
\&.u \fIx\fR	-	no	Underline argument (even in \fI*roff\fR).
(Nofill only).
.ti0
\&.uh	-	yes	Like .sh, but unnumbered.
.ti0
\&.xp \fIx\fR	-	no	Print index
.I x.
.SH Files
.PN /usr/lib/tmac/tmac.e
.br
.PN /usr/lib/me/*
.SH See Also
refer(1), tbl(1), nroff(1) 
.br
"\-me Reference Manual", 
\fISupplementary Documents, Volume 1: General User\fP
.br
"Writing Papers with Nroff Using \-me",
\fISupplementary Documents, Volume 1: General User\fP
