.\" SCCSID: @(#)acct.2	8.1	9/11/90
.TH acct 2
.SH Name
acct \- turn accounting on or off
.SH Syntax
.nf
.ft B
acct(file)
char *file;
.ft R
.fi
.SH Description
.NXR "acct system call"
.NXR "accounting file" "turning on"
The system is prepared to write a record
in an accounting
.I file
for each process as it terminates.
This
call, with a null-terminated string naming an existing file
as argument, turns on accounting;
records for each terminating process are appended to
.IR file .
An argument of 0 causes accounting to be turned off.
.PP
The accounting file format is given in 
.MS acct 5 .
.PP
This call is permitted only to the superuser.
Accounting is automatically disabled when the file system the
accounting file resides on runs out of space.  It is enabled when
space once again becomes available.
.SH Return Values
On error, \-1 is returned.
The file must exist and the call may be
exercised only by the superuser.
It is erroneous to try to turn on accounting when it is already on.
If successful, 0 is returned.
.SH Diagnostics
The
.PN acct
system call will fail if one of the following is true:
.TP 15 
[EPERM]
The caller is not the superuser.
.TP 15
[ENOTDIR]
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.TP 15
[ENAMETOOLONG]
A component of a pathname exceeded 255 characters, or an entire
pathname exceeded 1023 characters.
.TP 15
[ENOENT]
The named file does not exist.
.TP 15
[EACCES]
The path name is not a regular file.
.TP 15
[EROFS]
The named file resides on a read-only file system.
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
The
.I file
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.TP 15
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname.
.TP 15
[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file
system.
.SH Restrictions
No accounting is produced for programs running
when a crash occurs.
In particular, nonterminating programs are never
accounted for.
.SH See Also
acct(5), sa(8)
