.\" SCCSID: @(#)audgen.2        x.x     10/10/88
.TH audgen 2
.SH Name
audgen \- generate an audit record
.SH Syntax
.ft B
.nf
audgen(event, tokenp, argv)
.br
.B int event;
.B char *tokenp, *argv[];
.fi
.SH Description
.NXR "audgen system call"
The
.PN audgen
system call generates an audit record, which gets placed in the auditlog.
.PP
The argument \fIevent\fP is an integer indicating the event type of the 
operation being audited (see 
.PN audit.h
).  The value of \fIevent\fP must be
between MIN_TRUSTED_EVENT and MIN_TRUSTED_EVENT+N_TRUSTED_EVENTS.
.PP
The argument \fItokenp\fP is a null-terminated array of token types (see
.PN audit.h
), each of which represents the type of argument referenced by the
corresponding
\fI*argv\fP argument.
.PP
The argument \fIargv\fP is a pointer to an array containing the actual
arguments or pointers to those arguments that are to be recorded in the
audit record.  A pointer to the actual argument is placed in that array
when the argument is a string, array, or other variable length structure. 
Arguments represented as int's or short's are placed directly in that
array.  Each member of the array must be word-aligned.
You cannot change the
values for the audit_id, uid, ruid, pid, ppid, device, IP address, or
hostid (secondary tokens for these values are available). 
.SH Return Values
Upon successful completion, 
.PN audgen
returns a value of 0.  
Otherwise, it returns a value of \-1 and sets the global integer variable
.I errno
to indicate the error.  
.SH Restrictions
.NXR "audgen system call" "restricted"
The 
.PN audgen
call is a privileged system call.
No record is generated if the specified \fIevent\fP is not being audited
for the current process.
The maximum number of arguments referenced by 
.I argv
is AUD_NPARAM (8).
.SH Diagnostics
.NXR "audgen system call" "diagnostics"
The
.PN audgen
system call fails under the following
conditions:
.TP 15
[EACCES]
The user is not privileged for this operation.
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The value supplied for the
.I event,
.I tokenp,
or
.I argv
argument is invalid. 

