.\" SCCSID: @(#)chdir.2	8.1	9/11/90
.TH chdir 2
.SH Name
chdir \- change working directory
.SH Syntax
.nf
chdir(\fIpath\fP)
.br
char *\fIpath;\fP
.fi
.SH Description
.NXR "chdir system call" 
.NXA "chdir system call" "chroot system call"
.NXR "working directory" "changing"
The
.I path
is the pathname of a directory.  The
.PN chdir
system call causes this directory
to become the current working directory, which is
the starting point for pathnames that do not begin at the root directory
(/). 
.PP
For a directory to become the current directory,
the process must have execute (search) access to the directory.
.SH Return Values
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and \fIerrno\fP is set to indicate
the error.
.SH Environment
Differs from the System V definition in that ELOOP is a 
possible error condition.
.SH Diagnostics
The
.PN chdir
system call
fails and the current working directory is unchanged under the following
conditions:
.TP 15
[ENOTDIR]
A component of the pathname is not a directory.
.TP 15
[ENAMETOOLONG]
A component of a pathname exceeds 255 characters, or
an entire path name exceeds 1023 characters.
.TP 15
[ENOENT]
The named directory does not exist or the path points to an
empty string and the environment defined is POSIX or SYSTEM_FIVE.
.TP 15
[EACCES]
Search permission is denied for any component of
the path name.
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
The
.I path
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.TP 15
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating
the pathname.
.TP 15
[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file
system.
.TP 15
[ESTALE]
The file handle given in the argument was invalid.  The file 
referred to by that file handle no longer exists or has been revoked.
.TP 15
[ETIMEDOUT]
A connect request or remote file operation failed
because the connected party
did not properly respond after a period
of time that is dependent on the communications protocol.
.SH See Also
chroot(2)
