.\" SCCSID: @(#)setquota.2	8.1	9/11/90
.TH setquota 2
.SH Name
setquota \- enable/disable quotas on a file system
.SH Syntax
.nf
.B setquota(special, file)
.B char *special, *file;
.fi
.SH Description
.NXR "setquota system call"
.NXA "setquota system call" "quota system call"
.NXAM "setquota system call" "quotacheck command"
.NXAM "setquota system call" "quotaon command"
.NXR "disk quota" "enabling"
Disk quotas are enabled or disabled with the
.PN setquota
call.  The
.I special
indicates a block special device on which a
mounted file system exists.
If
.I file
is nonzero, it specifies a file in that
file system from which to take the quotas.  If
.I file
is zero, then quotas are disabled on the file system.
The quota file must exist; it is normally created with the
.PN quotacheck
program.
.PP
Only the superuser can turn quotas on or off.
.SH Return Values
A zero (0) return value indicates a successful call.  A value
of \-1 is returned when an error occurs, and 
.I errno
is set to indicate the reason for failure.
.SH Diagnostics
The
.PN setquota
system call fails when one of the following occurs:
.TP 15
[ENODEV]
The
.I special
does not exist.
.TP 15
[ENOTBLK]
The
.I special
is not a block device.
.TP 15
[ENXIO]
The major device number of 
.I special
is out of range. (This indicates no device driver exists
for the associated hardware.)
.TP 15
[ENOTDIR]
A component of either path prefix 
is not a directory.
.TP 15
[EROFS]
The
.I file
resides on a read-only file system.
.TP 15
[EACCES]
The
.I file
resides on a file system different from
.IR special .
.TP 15
[EACCES]
The
.I file
is not a plain file.
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
Either pathname contains a character with the high-order
bit set.
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The kernel has not been compiled with the QUOTA option.
.TP 15
[ENAMETOOLONG]
A component of either pathname exceeded 255 characters,
or the entire length of either path name exceeded 1023
characters.
.TP 15
[ENOENT]
The
.I file
does not exist.
.TP 15
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating
either pathname.
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The caller is not the superuser.
.TP 15
[EACCES]
Search permission is denied for a component of either path
prefix.
.TP 15
[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the
file containing the quotas.
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
The
.I special
or
.I path
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.SH See Also
quota(2), edquota(8), quotacheck(8), quotaon(8), 
.br
"Disk Quotas in a UNIX Environment",
.I Supplementary Documents,
Vol. III:System Manager
