.TH setsysinfo 2
.SH Name
setsysinfo \- set system information
.SH Syntax
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/sysinfo.h>
.PP
setsysinfo(\fIop, buffer, nbytes, arg, flag\fP)
unsigned	 \fIop\fP;
char		*\fIbuffer\fP;
unsigned	 \fInbytes\fP;	
unsigned	 \fIarg\fP;
unsigned	 \fIflag\fP;
.fi
.SH Description
.NXR "setsysinfo system call"
The
.PN setsysinfo
system call modifies system information.
The
.I op
argument specifies the operation to be performed.  
Values for 
.I op
are defined in the 
.PN <sys/sysinfo.h> 
header file.
The optional
.I buffer
and
.I nbytes
arguments are 
used to pass data, which varies depending upon
.IR op .
When
.I buffer
and
.I nbytes
are not required, they should be set to NULL.
The optional
.I arg
argument can be used with certain
.I op 
values for additional information. 
When
.I arg
is not required, it should be set to NULL.
The optional
.I flag
argument can be used with certain
.I op 
and
.I arg
values for additional information.
When
.I flag
is not required it should be set to NULL.
.PP
.sp
Possible 
.I op
values are:
.IP "\fIop\fR = SSI_NVPAIRS" 0.5i
Use a list of 
.I name-value 
pairs to modify predefined system
variables.
.I Buffer
is an array of
.I name-value
pairs, where
.I name
is one of a predefined set of system variables defined in
the <sys/sysinfo.h> header file. 
.sp
Possible
.I name
values are:
.RS
.IP "SSIN_NFSPORTMON" 0.5i
A Boolean that determines whether incoming NFS traffic is
originating at a privileged port or not.
.IP "SSIN_NFSSETLOCK" 0.5i
A Boolean that determines whether NFS (daemon) style file
and record locking are enabled or not.
.IP "SSIN_PROG_ENV" 0.5i
Set the compatibility mode of the process. Possible values are
A_BSD, A_POSIX, or A_SYSV.
.IP "SSIN_UACSYS (RISC only)" 0.5i
A Boolean that determines whether or not the system prints an
"unaligned access fixup" message.  Use of this is restricted to the
superuser.
.IP "SSIN_UACPARNT (RISC only)" 0.5i
A Boolean that is set in the current process's parent proc
structure.  It turns printing of ``unaligned access fixups'' on
or off.  This flag is inherited across forks and execs.
If parent is init, it returns EPERM.
.IP "SSIN_UACPROC (RISC only)" 0.5i
A Boolean value that is set in the proc structure to turn
off/on printing of ``unaligned access fixup'' messages.  This flag
is inherited across forks and execs.
.PP
The
.I value
is a legal value for
.I name.
The
.I nbytes
argument defines the number of 
.I name-value 
pairs in
.I buffer.
The
.I arg
and
.I flag
arguments are not used.
.RE
.IP "\fIop\fR = SSI_ZERO_STRUCT" 0.5i
Each member of a system structure is set to zero.  The
.I arg
defines the structure type. 
.sp
Possible values for
.I arg
are:
.RS
.IP "SSIS_NFS_CLSTAT" 0.5i
NFS client statistics.
.IP "SSIS_NFS_SVSTAT" 0.5i
NFS server statistics.
.IP "SSIS_RPC_STAT" 0.5i
RPC statistics.
The
.I flag
argument is used for a particular
.I arg
value, to further define the operation or a resultant
action to be performed.
The
.I buffer
and
.I nbytes
arguments are not used.
.PP
Permission checking is done on a structure-by-structure basis.
.RE
.IP "\fIop\fR = SSI_SET_STRUCT" 0.5i
Each member of a system structure is set to a supplied value. The
.I arg
defines the structure type. 
.sp
Possible values for
.I arg
are as defined for op SSI_STRUCT_ZERO.
The
.I flag
argument is used for a particular
.I arg
value, to further define the operation or a resultant
action to be performed.
The
.I buffer
argument is the address of a structure of the appropriate type that
contains the desired values.
The
.I nbytes
argument specifies the amount of data to be transferred that is stored at
.IR buffer .
.EE
.SH Return Values
.PP
A zero (0) is returned if the call succeeds. If the call fails, \-1 
is returned, and the global variable
.I errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH Diagnostics
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
Either
.I buffer
or
.I arg
causes an illegal address to be referenced.
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The 
.I op,
.I arg,
or
.I flag
argument is invalid.
.TP
[EPERM]
Permission is denied for the operation requested
.SH See Also
getsysinfo(2)
