.\" SCCSID: @(#)symlink.2	8.1	9/11/90
.TH symlink 2
.SH Name
symlink \- make symbolic link to a file
.SH Syntax
.nf
.ft B
symlink(name1, name2)
char *name1, *name2;
.fi
.ft R
.SH Description
.NXR "symlink system call"
.NXA "symlink system call" "readlink system call"
.NXA "symlink system call" "stat system call"
.NXR "file" "creating symbolic link to"
A symbolic link
.I name2
is created to
.IR name1
(\fIname2\fP is the name of the
file created, \fIname1\fP is the string
used in creating the symbolic link).
Either name can be an arbitrary path name.  The files need not
be on the same file system.
.SH Return Values
Upon successful completion, a zero (0) value is returned.
If an error occurs, the error code is stored in \fIerrno\fP,
and a \-1 value is returned.
.SH Diagnostics
.NXR "symlink system call" "diagnostics"
The symbolic link is made, unless one or more of the
following are true:
.TP 15
[ENOTDIR]
A component of the \fIname2\fP prefix is not a directory.
.TP 15
[EEXIST]
The
\fIname2\fP already exists.
.TP 15
[EACCES]
A component of the \fIname2\fP path prefix denies search permission.
.TP 15
[EROFS]
The file \fIname2\fP would reside on a read-only file system.
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
The
.I name1
or
.I name2
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.TP 15
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname.
.TP 15
[ENAMETOOLONG]
A component of either pathname exceeded MAXNAMELEN characters, or
the entire length of either pathname exceeded MAXPATHNAME characters.
.TP 15
[ENOENT]
The named file does not exist.
.TP 15
[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while making the directory entry for
.IR name2 ,
or allocating the inode for
.IR name2 ,
or writing out the link contents of
.IR name2 .
.TP 15
[ENOSPC]
The directory in which the entry for the new symbolic link
is being placed cannot be extended, because there is no space left
on the file system containing the directory.
.TP 15
[ENOSPC]
The new symbolic link cannot be created, because there is no
space left on the file system that will contain the
symbolic link.
.TP 15
[ENOSPC]
There are no free inodes on the file system on which the symbolic
link is being created.
.TP 15
[EDQUOT]
The directory in which the entry for the new symbolic link
is being placed cannot be extended because the user's quota
of disk blocks on the file system containing the
directory has been exhausted.
.TP 15
[EDQUOT]
The new symbolic link cannot be created because the user's
quota of disk blocks on the file system that will contain
the symbolic link has been exhausted.
.TP 15
[EDQUOT]
The user's quota of inodes on the file system on which
the user's symbolic link is being created has been exhausted.
.TP 15
[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while making the directory entry or allocating
the inode.
.TP
[ETIMEDOUT]
A connect request or remote file operation failed,
because the connected party
did not properly respond after a period
of time that is dependent on the communications protocol.
.SH See Also
ln(1), link(2), readlink(2), stat(2), unlink(2)
