.\" SCCSID: @(#)2780e.1	8.1	9/11/90
.TH 2780e 1 VAX
.SH Name
2780e \- spooler for the IBM 2780 emulator
.SH Syntax
.B 2780e
[\fB\-m\fR]
[\fB\-a\fR]
[\fB\-q\fR\|]
[\fB\-b\fR]
[\fB\-t\fR]
[\fB\-S\fIfile\fR]
[\fB\-#\fInum\fR] \fIfile...\fR [\fB\-o\fI file...\fR]
.SH Description
.NXR "2780e emulator spooler"
.NXAM "2780e emulator spooler" "2780d daemon"
.NXAM "2780e emulator spooler" "dpv data communications device"
.NXA "2780e emulator spooler" "3780e emulator spooler"
The
.PN 2780e
command puts the files named as arguments, 
along with a single control file that guides each file's execution,
into
.PN usr/spool/rje 
and calls the
.PN 2780d
program. 
This program
sends the files to the IBM system.
.SH Options
The following options may be needed to
format data transmitted to an IBM system. 
.TP 5
.B \-#
Waits for
.I num
files to be received as output from job and gives 
default file names in 
the form 
.I Ruseridpid.
.TP
.B \-a
Send file as a priority job. Used only by the superuser. 
This file will be placed ahead of the next regular file or at the
end of other priority jobs.
.TP
.B \-b
Transmits the file to an IBM system that accepts 
multiple record transmission.
.TP
.B \-m
Notifies user by mail that file was sent and output was received.
.TP
.B \-o
Name output files with specified file names. 
This option must be at the end of the command line.
Anything listed after this option is interpreted as
an output file name.
.TP
.B \-q
Prepares the file for transmission and places it in 
.PN /usr/spool/rje
but does not call 2780d to transmit.
.TP
.B \-S
Sends contents of file to the IBM
as a sign-on card.  If this option is not specified, a
default sign-on card in the spool area is used.
.TP
.B \-t
Sends data in transparent mode. This option is used for
files which contain special control or protocol characters.
.SH Files
.TP 23
/etc/2780d 
Program that transmits files.
.TP
/usr/spool/rje 
Spool directory
.TP
/usr/spool/rje/rjetemp.out 
Temporary file for incoming files
.SH See Also
2780d(8), 3780e(1)
