.\" SCCSID: @(#)3780e.1	8.1	9/11/90
.TH 3780e 1 VAX
.SH Name
3780e \- spooler for the IBM 3780 emulator
.SH Syntax
.B 3780e
[\fB\-C\fR]
[\fB\-m\fR]
[\fB\-a\fR]
[\fB\-q\fR\|]
[\fB\-t\fR[\fBb\fR]]
[\fB\-S\fIfile\fR]
[\fB\-#\fInum\fR] \fIfile...\fR
[\fB\-o\fI file\fR]
.SH Description
.NXAM "3780e emulator spooler" "2780e daemon"
.NXA "3780e emulator spooler" "2780e emulator spooler"
.NXR "3780e emulator spooler"
The
.PN 3780e
command puts the files named as arguments, 
along with a single control file that guides each file's
execution, into
.PN usr/spool/rje 
and calls the
.PN 2780d
program.
This program
sends the files to the IBM system.
.SH Options
The following options may be needed to
format the data transmitted to an IBM system.
.TP 5
.B \-#
Waits for
.I num
files to be received as output and gives 
default file names in 
the form 
.I Ruseridpid.
.TP
.B \-a
Send file as a priority job. Used only by the superuser. 
This file will be placed ahead of the next regular file or at the
end of other priority jobs.
.TP 
.B \-C
Prevents the compression of spaces when files are sent.
.TP 
.B \-m
Sends mail when file is sent and when
output from submitted file is received successfully.
.TP 
.B \-o
Names output file with specified file names.
This option must be at the end of the command line.
Anything listed after this option is interpreted as
an output file name.
.TP 
.B \-q
Prepares file for transmission and places it in 
.PN /usr/spool/rje
but does not call 
.PN 2780d 
to transmit it.
.TP 
.B \-S
Send contents of the file to the IBM
as a sign-on card.  If this option is not specified, then a
default sign-on card in the spool area will be used.
.TP 
.B \-t
Sends data in transparent mode. This option is used for files
which contain special control or protocol characters.
Use this option if the IBM system does
not accept multiple 80 column card records in
transparent mode.
.TP 
.B \-tb
Transmits the file to IBM that
accepts multiple 80 column card records in transparent
mode.
.SH Files
.TP 23
/etc/2780d  
Program that transmits files
.TP
/usr/spool/rje 
Spool directory
.TP
/usr/spool/rje/rjetemp.out 
Temporary file for incoming files
.SH See Also
2780d(8), 2780e(1)
