.\" SCCSID: @(#)admin.1	8.1	9/11/90
.tr ~
.nr f 0
.bd S B 3
.de SP
.if n .ul
\%[\fB\-\\$1\fR\\c
.if n .ul 0
\\$2\\$3
..
.de SF
.if n .ul
\%[\fB\-\\$1\fR]
.if n .ul 0
..
.de ZZ
\fB.\|.\|.\fR
..
.de AR
.if \\nf \{ \
.    RE
.    nr f 0 \}
.PP
.RS 5
.TP 15
\fB\-\\$1\\fR
\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7 \\$8 \\$9
.nr f 1
..
.de C1
.if \\nf \{ \
.    RE
.    nr f 0 \}
.PP
.RS 5
.TP 15
\\$1
\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7 \\$8 \\$9
.nr f 1
..
.de A1
.if \\nf \{ \
.    RE
.    nr f 0 \}
.PP
.RS 5
.TP 15
\fB\-\\$1\fR[\fI\\$2\fR]
\\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7 \\$8 \\$9
.nr f 1
..
.de A2
.if \\nf \{ \
.    RE
.    nr f 0 \}
.PP
.RS 5
.TP 15
\fB\-\\$1\fI\\$2\fR
\\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7 \\$8 \\$9
.nr f 1
..
.ds M)  \fI\s-1MR\s+1\fR
.ds R)  \fI\s-1RELEASE NUMBER\s+1\fR
.ds S)  \s-1SCCS\s+1
.ds I)  \s-1SID\s+1
.de F1
.if \\nf \{ \
.    RE
.    nr f 0 \}
.PP
.RS 13
.TP 7
\fB\\$1\fI\\$2\fR
\\$3
.nr f 1
..
.de F2
.if \\nf \{ \
.    RE
.    nr f 0 \}
.PP
.RS 13
.TP 7
\fB\\$1[\fI\\$2\fR]
\\$3
.nr f 1
..
.TH admin 1
.SH Name
admin \- SCCS file administrator
.SH Syntax
.B admin
[\fB\-n\fR] [\fB\-i\fR[\fIname\fR]\|] [\fB\-r\fIrel\fR\|] 
[\fB\-t\fR[\fIname\fR]\|] [\fB\-f\fIflag\fR\|[\fIflag-val\fR\|]\|] 
[\fB\-d\fIflag\fR\|[\fIflag-val\fR\|]\|] [\fB\-a\fIlogin\fR] 
[\fB\-e\fIlogin\fR] [\fB\-m\fR[\fIlist\fR\|]\|] [\fB\-y\fR[\fIcomment\fR\|]\|] 
[\fB\-h\fR] [\fB\-z\fR] \fIfiles\fR
.SH Description
.NXB "admin command (sccs)"
.NXB "SCCS file" "creating"
.NXB "SCCS file" "changing parameters"
.NXA "admin command (sccs)" "delta command (sccs)"
.NXA "admin command (sccs)" "val command (sccs)"
.NXA "admin command (sccs)" "vc command (sccs)"
The 
.PN admin
command is used to create new \*(S) files
and to change parameters of existing ones.
Arguments to
.PN admin ,
which may appear in any order,
consist of keyletter arguments,
which begin with \fB\-\fR,
and named files
(note that SCCS file names must begin with the characters \fBs.\fR).
If a named file does not exist,
it is created,
and its parameters are initialized according to
the specified keyletter arguments.
Parameters not initialized by a keyletter argument
are assigned a default value.
If a named file does exist,
parameters corresponding to specified keyletter arguments
are changed,
and other parameters are left as is.
.PP
If a directory is named,
.PN admin
behaves as though each file in the directory were
specified as a named file,
except that non-\*(S) files
(last component of the path name does not begin with \fBs.\fR)
and unreadable files
are ignored.
If a name of \fB\-\fR is given, the standard input is read;
each line of the standard input is taken to be the name of an \*(S) file
to be processed.
Again, non-\*(S) files and unreadable files are ignored.
.SH Options
.NXR "admin command (sccs)" "options"
Each keyletter argument is explained as though only
one named file is to be processed,
because the effects of the arguments
apply independently to
each named file.  The list of arguments is as follows:
.AR n This
keyletter indicates that a new \*(S) file is to be created.
.A1 i name The
\fIname\fR of a file from which the text 
for a new \*(S) file is to be taken.
The text constitutes the first delta of the file
(see the 
.B \-r
keyletter for the delta numbering scheme).
.sp
If the
.B i
keyletter is used,
but the file name is omitted,
the text is obtained by reading the standard input
until an end-of-file is encountered.
If this keyletter is omitted,
then the \*(S) file is created empty.
.sp
Only one \*(S) file can be created
by an
.PN admin 
command in which the
.B i
keyletter is supplied.
Using a single
.PN admin 
command
to create two or more \*(S) files requires that they be created
empty
(no
.B \-i
keyletter).
Note that the
.B \-i
keyletter implies the
.B \-n
keyletter.
.A2 r rel The release into which 
the initial delta is inserted.
This keyletter may be used only if the
.B \-i
keyletter is also used.
If the
.B \-r
keyletter is not used,
the initial delta is inserted into release 1.
The level of the initial delta is always 1.
By default, initial deltas are named 1.1.
.A1 t name The
\fIname\fR of a file from which descriptive text for the \*(S) file
is to be taken.
If the
.B \-t
keyletter is used
and
.PN admin 
is creating a new \*(S) file
(the
.B \-n
and/or
.B \-i
keyletters are also used), the descriptive text file name
must also
be supplied.
.sp
In the case of existing \*(S) files:
(1) a
.B \-t
keyletter without a file name causes removal of descriptive text
(if any) currently in the \*(S) file; and (2) a
.B \-t
keyletter with a file name causes text (if any) in the
named file to replace
the descriptive text (if any) currently in the \*(S) file.
.A2 f flag This
keyletter specifies a \fIflag\fR, and, possibly, a value for the \fIflag\fR, to
be placed in the \*(S) file.
Several
.B f
keyletters can be supplied on a single
.PN admin 
command line.
The allowable \fIflag\fRs and their values are:
.RS 20
.F1 b \& Allows
use of
the
.B \-b
keyletter on a
.MS get 1
command to create branch deltas.
.F1 c ceil The
highest release
(``ceiling''),
a positive number no higher than 9999, which may be
retrieved by a
.MS get 1
command for editing.
The default value for an unspecified
.B c
flag is 9999.
.F1 f floor The
lowest release
(``floor''),
a positive number greater than 0 but less than 9999,
which may be retrieved by a
.MS get 1
command for editing.
The default value for an unspecified
.B f
flag is 1.
.F1 d \s-1SID\s0 The
default delta number
(\*(I)) to be used by a
.MS get 1
command.
.F1 i \& Causes
the "No id keywords (ge6)" message issued by
.MS get 1
or
.MS delta 1
to be treated as a fatal error.
In the absence of this flag, the message is only a warning.
The message is issued if no
\*(S) identification keywords
are found
in the text retrieved or stored in the \*(S) file.
For further information, see 
.MS get 1 .
.F1 j \& Allows
concurrent
get(1)
commands for editing
on the same \*(I) of an \*(S) file.
This allows multiple concurrent updates to the same
version of the \*(S) file.
.F1 l list A
\fIlist\fR of releases to which deltas can no longer be made
.RB ( "get \-e"
against one of these ``locked'' releases fails).
The \fIlist\fR has the following syntax:
.F1 \& \& <list>
::= <range> \(or <list> , <range>
.br
<range>~::=	\*(R) \(or \fBa\fR
.F1 \& \& The
character \fBa\fR in the \fIlist\fR is equivalent to specifying
.I "all releases\^"
for the named \*(S) file.
.F1 n \& Causes
.MS delta 1
to create a null delta
in each of those releases (if any) being skipped when a delta is made
in a new
release.  For example, in making delta 5.1 after 
delta 2.7, releases 3 and 4
are skipped.
These null deltas serve as anchor points, so that branch deltas
can later be created from them.
The absence of this flag causes skipped releases to be
nonexistent in the \*(S) file,
preventing branch deltas from being created from them in the future.
.F1 q text User
definable text substituted for all occurrences
of the %\&Q% keyword in \*(S) file text retrieved by
get(1).
.F1 m mod \fIMod\|\fRule
name of the \*(S) file
substituted for all occurrences of the %\&M% keyword in \*(S) file
tex retrieved by 
.MS get 1 .
If the
.B m
flag is not specified, the value
assigned is the name of the \*(S) file with the leading
\fBs.\fR removed.
.F1 t type \fIType\fR
of module in the \*(S) file substituted for all occurrences of
%\&Y% keyword in \*(S) file text retrieved by get(1).
.F2 v pgm Causes
.MS delta 1
to prompt for modification request (\*(M)) numbers as the
reason for creating a delta.
The optional value specifies the name of an \*(M) number validity
checking program.  For further information, 
see 
.MS delta 1 .
(If this flag is set when creating an
SCCS file, the
.B m
keyletter must also be used even if its value is null).
.RE
.A2 d flag Causes
deletion of the specified \fIflag\fR from an \*(S) file.
The
.B \-d
keyletter
can be specified only when processing existing
\*(S) files.
Several
.B \-d
keyletters can be supplied on a single
.PN admin 
command.
See the
.B \-f
keyletter for allowable \fIflag\fR names.
.A2 l list A
.I list
of releases to be unlocked.
See the
.B \-f
keyletter for a description of the
.B l
flag and the syntax of a \fIlist\fR.
.A2 a login A
\fIlogin\fR name or numerical \s-1ULTRIX\s+1 System group \s-1ID\s+1
to be added to the list of users which
can make deltas (changes) to the \*(S) file.
A group \s-1ID\s+1 is equivalent to specifying all
\fIlogin\fR names common to that group \s-1ID\s+1.
Several
.B a
keyletters can be used
on a single
.PN admin 
command line.
As many \fIlogin\fRs or numerical group \s-1ID\s+1s as desired 
can be on the list simultaneously.
If the list of users is empty,
then anyone can add deltas.
.A2 e login A
\fIlogin\fR name or numerical group \s-1ID\s+1 to be erased from the list of users
allowed to make deltas (changes) to the \*(S) file.
Specifying a group \s-1ID\s+1 is equivalent to specifying all
\fIlogin\fR names common to that group \s-1ID\s+1.
Several
.B e
keyletters can be used on a single
.PN admin
command line.
.A1 y comment The
.I comment\^
text is inserted
into the \*(S) file as a comment
for the initial delta in a manner identical to that
of
.MS delta 1 .
Omission of the \fB\-y\fR keyletter results in a default
comment line being inserted in the form:
.sp \n(PDu
date and time created
.IR \s-1YY\s+1 / \s-1MM\s+1 / \s-1DD\s+1
.IR \s-1HH\s+1 : \s-1MM\s+1 : \s-1SS\s+1
by
.I login\^
.sp \n(PDu
The 
.B \-y
keyletter
is valid only if the
.B \-i
or
.B \-n
keyletters are
specified.  
.A1 m mrlist The
list of modification requests (\*(M)) numbers is inserted into the \*(S) file
as the reason for creating the initial delta in a manner
identical to
.MS delta 1 .
The
.B v
flag must be set and the \*(M) numbers are validated if the
.B v
flag has a value (the name of an \*(M) number validation program).
Diagnostics occur if the
.B v
flag is not set or \*(M) validation fails.
.AR h Causes
.PN admin  
to check the structure of the \*(S) file
and to compare a newly
computed check-sum (the sum of all the characters in the \*(S) file
except those in the first line) with the check-sum that is stored
in the first line of the \*(S) file.
Appropriate error diagnostics are produced.
For further information, see 
.MS sccsfile 5 .
.C1 \& This
keyletter inhibits writing on the file, so that it
nullifies the effect of any other keyletters supplied.  It 
is, therefore, only meaningful when processing existing files.
.AR z The
\*(S) file check-sum is recomputed and stored in the first line
of the \*(S) file
(see
.BR \-h ,
above).
.C1 \& Note
that use of this keyletter on a truly corrupted file
may prevent future detection of the corruption.
.i0
.SH Diagnostics
Use sccshelp(1) for explanations.
.tr ~~
.SH Restrictions
When creating a new \*(S) file with the \fB-n\fR or \fB-i\fR options,
the g-file path name cannot be of the form \fBs.\fP\fIfile-name\fP.
.SH Files
The last component of
all \*(S) file names are of the form \fBs.\fP\fIfile-name\fP.
New \*(S) files are given mode 444.
For further information, see 
.MS chmod 1 .
Write permission
in the pertinent directory is
required to create a file.
All writing done by
.PN admin 
is to a temporary x-file,
called \fBx.\fP\fIfile-name\fP,
created with mode 444 if the
.PN admin 
command is creating a new \*(S) file, or with the same mode
as the \*(S) file if it exists.
For further information, see 
.MS get 1 .
After successful execution of
.PN admin ,
the \*(S) file is removed if it exists, and the x-file
is renamed with the name of the \*(S) file.
This ensures that changes are made to the \*(S) file only
if no errors occurred.
.PP
The mode of the \*(S) files prevents any modification
at all except by \*(S) commands.
.PP
If it should be necessary to patch an \*(S) file for any reason,
the mode may be changed to 644 by the owner,
allowing use of
.MS ed 1 .
.NT
Care must be taken that correct commands are used when
patching an SCCS file, otherwise further corruption of the
file can occur.
.NE
The edited file should
.I always\^
be processed by an
.PN admin \-\fBh\fR
to check for corruption, followed by an
.PN admin \-\fBz\fR
to generate a proper check-sum.
Another
.PN admin \-\fBh\fR
is recommended to ensure the \*(S) file is valid.
.PP
The 
.PN admin  
command also makes use of
a transient lock file
(called \fBz.\fP\fIfile-name\fP),
which is used to prevent simultaneous updates to the \*(S) file by different users.
For further information, see 
.MS get 1 .
.SH See Also
delta(1), ed(1), get(1), help(1), prs(1), sccs(1), what(1), sccsfile(5)
.br
\fIGuide to the Source Code Control System\fP
.NXE "SCCS file" "creating"
.NXE "SCCS file" "changing parameters"
.NXE "admin command (sccs)"
