.TH ali 1mh
.SH Name
ali \- list mail aliases
.SH Syntax
.B ali 
[
.B \-alias
.I aliasfile
] [
.B \-help
] [
.B \-[no]list
] [
.B \-[no]normalize
] [
.B \-user 
.I useraddr
] [
.B \-nouser
] [
.I "aliases ..."
] 
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Description
.NXR "ali command"
.NXR "mail aliases" "listing"
The
.PN ali
command searches the specified mail alias files 
for each of the given aliases.
It creates a list of addresses for those aliases,
and displays that list on the screen.  
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Options
.IP "\-alias \fIaliasfile\fB" 10
Specifies the alias file to be consulted by 
.PN ali .
You can specify more than one alias file, but each 
.I aliasfile
must be preceded by
.BR \-alias .
In addition to any alias files that you specify,
.PN ali
consults the system alias file
.PN /usr/lib/mh/MailAliases .
.IP
You can set up an entry in your
.PN \&.mh_profile
so that
.PN ali
automatically consults an alias file.
To do this, add the 
\f(CWAliasfile\fR
entry to your profile.
See
.MS mh_profile 5mh 
for more information.
.\"
.IP "\-help" 10
Prints a list of the valid options to this command.
.\"
.IP "\-list" 10
.PD 0
.IP "\-nolist" 10
.PD
Prints the addresses on separate lines.
If you do not specify the
.B \-list 
option, the addresses are separated by commas and printed on
as few lines as possible.
.\"
.IP "\-normalize" 10
.PD 0
.IP "\-nonormalize" 10
.PD
Instructs
.PN ali
to try to track down the official hostname of the address.
This can be suppressed by using
.BR \-nonormalize .
The default is
.BR \-nonormalize .
.\"
.IP "\-user \fIuseraddr\fB" 10
.PD 0
.IP "\-nouser" 10
.PD
Displays all the aliases that contain a specific name.
Instead of listing the addresses that each given alias expands to,
.PN ali
lists the aliases that expand to include each given address.  
You must specify the
complete user name that you have used in your alias file.
.PP
The defaults for this command are:
.IP
.B "\-alias /usr/lib/mh/MailAliases"
.br
.B \-nolist
.br
.B \-nonormalize
.br
.B \-nouser
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Examples
The following example shows how the 
.B \-user
option can be used to list all the aliases containing the address
\f(CWParker@Venus\fR:
.EX
% \f(CBali \-user Parker@Venus\f(CW
Parker@Venus: Group, Reviewers, Badminton
.EE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" 
.SH Profile Components
.TS
tab(+);
l l.
Path:+Location of your Mail directory.
Aliasfile:+Location of your personal alias file.
.TE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Files
.TP 10
.PN $HOME/.mh_profile
The user profile.
.TP 10
.PN /usr/lib/mh/MailAliases
The system alias file.
.TP 10
.PN /etc/passwd
The system password file.
.TP 10
.PN /etc/group
The system group file.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH See Also
mh-alias(5mh)
