.\" SCCSID: @(#)ar.1	5.1	1/17/89
.TH ar 1 VAX
.SH Name
ar \- archive and library maintainer
.SH Syntax
.B ar
\-\fIkey\fR [\|\fIposname\fR\|] \fIafile name...\fR
.SH Description
.NXR "ar program"
.NXAM "ar program" "ar file"
.NXA "ar program" "nm command"
.NXR "library file" "archive file"
.NXR "archive file" "maintaining"
The
.PN ar
command maintains groups of files
combined into a single archive file.
The 
.PN ar 
command is used to create and update library 
files as they are used by the loader.
.PP
This version of
.I ar
uses a ASCII-format archive, which can be used by the various
machines running \s-2UNIX\s0.
Programs for dealing with older formats are also available.  For further
information, see
.MS arcv 8 .
.PP
The
.I key
is one character from the following set:
\fBd\fR, \fBr\fR, \fBq\fR, \fBt\fR, \fBp\fR, \fBm\fR, \fBx\fR.
The
.I key
character can be concatenated with
one or more of the following optional characters:
\fBv\fR, \fBu\fR, \fBa\fR, \fBi\fR, \fBb\fR, \fBc\fR, \fBl\fR,
\fBo\fR.
The
.I afile
is the archive file.
The
.I names
are constituent files in the archive file.
.SH Options
The OPTIONS section is divided into two sections:  the first section
lists the
.I key
characters and their meanings, and the second section lists
the optional characters and their meanings.
.PP
For backward compatibility, the \fIkeys\fR work without the dash (\-).
.NXR "ar program" "options"
The definitions of the
.I key
characters are as follows:
.IP d 
Deletes the named files from the archive file.
.IP m
Moves the named files to the end of the archive.
If a positioning character is present,
then the
.I posname
argument must be present and,
as in
.B r,
it will specify where the files are to be moved.
.IP p
Prints the named files in the archive.
.IP q 
Appends the named files to the end of the archive file.
Optional positioning characters are invalid.
The command does not check whether the added files
are already in the archive.  The \fBq\fR option is used primarily
to avoid quadratic behavior when you are creating a large
archive piece-by-piece.
.IP r 
Replaces the named files in the archive file.
If the optional character
.B u
is used with
.B r,
then only those files with last-modified dates later than
the archive files are replaced.
If an optional positioning character from the set
\fBa\fR, \fBb\fR, or \fBi\fR
is used, then the
.I posname
argument must be present
and it specifies that new files should be placed
after
.RB ( a )
or before
.RB ( b
or
.BR i )
.IR posname .
Otherwise
new files are placed at the end.
.IP t
Prints a table of contents of the archive file.
If no names are given, all files in the archive are 
included in the table of contents.
If file names are specified, only those files are included in the
table of contents.
.IP x
Extracts the named files.
If no names are given, all files in the archive are
extracted.
However,
.B x
does not alter the archive file.  Normally the last-modified 
date of each
extracted file is the date when it is extracted. However, if
.B o
is used, the last-modified
date is reset to the date recorded in the
archive.
.PP
The following optional characters can be used in conjunction with
the \fIkey\fR characters:
.IP a 5 
Tells the 
.PN ar
command that new files should be placed after
.I posname.
.IP b
Tells the 
.PN ar
command that new files should be placed before
.I posname.
.IP c
Suppresses the
message that is normally produced when
.I afile
is created.
.IP i
Tells the 
.PN ar
command that new files should be placed before
.I posname.
.IP l 
Places files in the local directory.
If the l option is not used then the value of the environment
symbol, TMPDIR, is used as the directory for temporary files.
If TMPDIR is not defined or if the directory it references is
not writable then /tmp is used.
.IP o
Resets the last-modified date to the date recorded in the archive.
Normally the last-modified date is the date when the file was extracted.
.IP u
Replaces only those files with last-modified dates later than the
archive files. 
See the 
.B r
.I key 
character.
.IP v 
Gives a file-by-file
description of the making of a
new archive file from the old archive and the constituent files.
When used with the \fBt\fR option,
it gives a long listing of all information about the files.
When used with
the \fBp\fR option,
it precedes each file with a name.
.SH Restrictions
.NXR "ar program" "restricted"
The 
.PN ar
command truncates the filenames to 15 characters.
.PP
If the same file is mentioned twice in an argument list,
it may be put in the archive twice.
.PP
The last-modified date of a file is not altered by the
.B o
option if the user is not the owner of the extracted file or a super-user.
.SH Files
/tmp/v*	temporaries
.SH See Also
ld(1), lorder(1), ranlib(1), ar(5), arcv(8)
