.\" SCCSID: @(#)as.1	8.1	9/11/90
.TH as 1 VAX
.SH Name
as \- assembler
.SH Syntax
.B as
[\fB\-d124\fR] [\fB\-L\fR] [\fB\-W\fR] [\fB\-V\fR] [\-J\fR] 
[\fB\-R\fR] [\fB\-t\fI directory\fR] [\fB\-o\fI objfile\fR] [\fIname...\fR]
.SH Description
.NXR "as assembler"
.NXAM "as assembler" "a.out file"
.NXA "cc compiler" "ctags command"
.NXS "VAX-11 assembler" "as assembler"
The
.PN as
assembler assembles the named files,
or the standard input if no file name is specified.
.SH Options
.TP 5
.B \-d
Specifies number of bytes for offsets
that involve forward or external references and have sizes unspecified
in assembly language.
The default is 
.B \-d4.
.TP 5
.B \-J
Uses long branches to resolve jumps when byte-displacement branches are
insufficient.  This must be used when a compiler-generated assembly contains
branches of more than 32k bytes.
.TP 5
.B \-L
Saves defined labels beginning with L, which are normally discarded.
The compilers generate such temporary labels.
.TP 5
.B \-o
Specifies the name of the output file. If this option is omitted,
.PN a.out
is assumed.
.TP 5
.B \-R
Make initialized data segments read only, by concatenating them to
the text segments.
This prevents the need to run editor scripts on assembly
code to make initialized data read only and shared.
.TP 5
.B \-t
Specifies a directory other than
the default
.PN /tmp
to receive the temporary file.
.TP 5
.B \-V
Uses virtual memory 
rather than a temporary file for immediate storage.
.TP 5
.B \-W
Do not complain about errors.
.PP
All undefined symbols in the assembly
are treated as global.
.PP
The output of the assembly is left on the file
.I objfile;
if that is omitted,
.B a.out
is used.
.SH Files
.TP 15
.PN /tmp/as\(**	
default temporary files
.TP
.PN a.out
default resultant object file
.SH See Also
adb(1), dbx(1), ld(1), nm(1), a.out(5)
.br
.I ULTRIX Supplementary Documents, 
Vol. III: System Manager
