.\" SCCSID: @(#)binmail.1	8.1	9/11/90
.\" SCCSID: @(#)binmail.1	8.1	9/11/90
.TH binmail 1
.SH Name
binmail \- send or receive mail among users
.SH Syntax
.B /bin/mail
[\fB+\fR] [\fB\-i\fR] [\|\fIperson...\fR\|] 
.br
.B /bin/mail
[\fB+\fR]
[\fB\-i\fR] \fB\-f\fI file\fR
.PP
.SH Description
.NXR "binmail program"
.NXR "mail" "sending"
.NXA "binmail program" "mail program"
This is the old version 7 UNIX system mail program.  The default
.PN mail
command is described in 
.MS mail 1 ,
and its binary is in the directory 
.PN /usr/ucb .
The 
.PN /bin/mail
program is still used to actually deliver
a mail message into the users system-wide mailbox (
.PN /usr/spool/mail/*
),
however, the reading of these messages has been replaced with
the program 
.PN /usr/ucb/mail .
Do not remove 
.PN /bin/mail
from your system.
.PP
The
.PN mail
command
with no argument prints a user's mail, message-by-message,
in last-in, first-out order; the optional argument
.B +
displays the mail messages in first-in, first-out order.
For each message, it reads a line from the standard input
to direct the disposition of the message.
.NXR "binmail program" "command reference list"
.PP
Issue the following commands from the 
.PN mail
program prompt: 
.TP 20
<CR>
Go on to next message
.TP 20
d
Delete message and go on to the next.
.TP 20
p
Print message again.
.TP 20
\-
Go back to previous message.
.TP 20
.RI "s [" "file..." "] 
Save the message in the named
.I files
(`mbox' default).
.TP 20
.RI "w [" "file..." "] 
Save the message, without a header, in the named
.I files
(`mbox' default).
.TP 20
.RI "m [" "person..." "] 
Mail the message to the named
.I persons
(yourself is default).
.TP 20
EOT (control-D)
Put unexamined mail back in the mailbox and stop.
.TP 20
q
Same as EOT.
.TP 20
.RI ! command
Escape to the Shell to do
.IR command .
.TP 20
*
Print a command summary.
.PP
An interrupt normally terminates the 
.PN mail
command; the mail file is unchanged.   
.PP
When
.I persons
are named,
.PN mail
takes the standard input up to an end-of-file (or a line with just `.')
and adds it to each
.I person's
mail file.  The message is preceded by the sender's name and a postmark.
Lines that look like postmarks are prepended with `>'.  A
.I person
is usually a user name recognized by 
.MS login 1 .
To denote a recipient on a remote system, prefix 
.I person
by the system name and exclamation mark.  For further information, see
.MS uucp 1c .
.PP
The 
.PN mail
program sends a message to the screen that there is mail when 
the user logs in.
.PP
When 
.PN /bin/mail
is used to deliver mail, (usually 
.MS sendmail 8
calls 
.PN /bin/mail
to do this), a mailbox is created for the user
in the directory 
.PN /usr/spool/mail ,
if it doesn't already exist.  The mailbox
is created with the mode 700 so that only its owner
can access it.
In addition, the directory 
.PN /usr/spool/mail
has the mode 777 with the sticky bit set.  The mode is 777 so that
other mail programs, notably
.PN /usr/ucb/mail ,
can create the appropriate lock files to prevent another process from
writing to the mailbox at the same time.  The sticky bit set on the
directory prevents one user from unlinking another user's mailbox.
.SH Options
.NXR "binmail program" "options"
.TP 20
.B \-f
Displays mail messages contained in the 
specified file (next argument) in place of your mailbox file.
.TP 20
.B \-i
Notifies mail to continue after interrupts.  
.SH Restrictions
.NXR "binmail program" "restricted"
Race conditions sometimes result in a failure to remove a lock file.
.SH Files
.ta \w'/usr/spool/mail/*.lock 'u
/etc/passwd	to identify sender and locate persons
.br
.li
/usr/spool/mail/*	incoming mail for user *
.br
mbox		saved mail
.br
/tmp/ma*	temp file
.br
/usr/spool/mail/*.lock	lock for mail directory
.br
dead.letter	unmailable text
.br
.SH See Also
mail(1), uucp(1c), uux(1c), write(1), sendmail(8)
