.TH burst 1mh
.SH Name
burst \- explode digests into messages
.SH Syntax
.B burst
[
.I +folder
] [
.I msgs
] [
.I options
]
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Description
.NXR "burst command"
.NXR "expanding packed messages"
The
.PN burst
command extracts the original messages from a forwarded message,
discards the forwarder's header details,
and places the original messages at the end of the current folder.  
.PP
By default, 
.PN burst
takes the current message in the current folder.
You can specify messages other than the current message by using
.PN burst
with the 
.I +folder
and 
.I msgs
arguments.
If you specify another message, that message becomes the current message.  
If you specify another folder, that folder becomes the current folder.
.PP
The 
.PN burst 
command will expand either a single message which contains
a number of separate messages packed together for ease of mailing,
or an Internet digest.
The
.PN packf
and
.PN forw
commands can both pack individual messages 
into a single message or file.
.PP
You can use 
.PN burst 
in combination with 
.PN forw 
or 
.PN packf 
to re-direct or forward mail more conveniently.
For example, if you wanted to forward a number of messages
to yourself on another account, you could use
.PN forw
to combine them and send them in a single message.
When the message arrives, you can use
.PN burst
to expand the single message into its constituent messages.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Options
.IP "\-inplace" 10
.PD 0
.IP "\-noinplace" 10
.PD
Expands the forwarded message or digest in its current
place in the folder.
The message that is expanded is replaced 
by the header used to forward the message,
or if it is a digest, by the table of contents.
The 
.PN burst
command then places the extracted messages 
immediately after this, 
and re-numbers the rest of the messages in the folder
to make room for them.
The original message or digest is not saved.
.IP
If 
.B \-noinplace 
is given, the original message or digest is preserved.
The messages which 
.PN burst
extracts are placed at the end of the folder.
Other messages are not re-numbered.
This is the default behavior.
.\"
.\"
.IP "\-quiet" 10
.PD 0
.IP "\-noquiet" 10
.PD
Directs 
.PN burst
to be silent about reporting messages 
that are not in digest format.
Normally, an error message is printed if you attempt to use 
.PN burst 
on a message which does not contain encapsulated messages.
.\"
.\"
.IP "\-verbose" 10
.PD 0
.IP "\-noverbose" 10
.PD
Reports the general actions that 
.PN burst
is taking to explode the digest.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The default settings for this command are:
.IP
.I +folder
defaults to the current folder
.br
.I msgs
defaults to the current message
.br
.B \-noinplace
.br
.B \-noquiet
.br
.B \-noverbose
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Restrictions
The 
.PN burst
program enforces a limit on the number of messages 
which may be expanded from a single message.
This number is about 1000 messages.
However, there is usually no limit on the number of messages 
which may reside in the folder after the messages have been expanded.
.PP
The 
.PN burst 
command only works on messages that have been encapsulated 
according to the guidelines laid down by the proposed standard RFC 934.  
The encapsulated message is considered to start after
.PN burst 
encounters a line of dashes.  
If you attempt to use
.PN burst
on a message that has not been encapsulated according to RFC 934, 
the results may be unpredictable.  
For example,
.PN burst
may find an encapsulation boundary prematurely,
and split a single encapsulated message 
into two or more messages.
.PP
Any text which appears after the last encapsulated message 
is not placed in a separate message by 
.PN burst .
When the 
.B \-inplace 
option is used,
this trailing information is lost.
Text which appears before the first encapsulated message
is not lost.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Profile Components
.TS
tab(+);
l l.
Path:+To determine your Mail directory
Msg-Protect:+To set file protection when creating a new message
.TE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Files
.TP 10
.PN $HOME/\&.mh_profile
The user profile.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH See Also
forw(1mh), inc(1mh), msh(1mh), packf(1mh)
.br
\fIProposed Standard for Message Encapsulation\fR (RFC 934)
