.\" SCCSID: @(#)cat.1	3.1	11/23/87
.TH cat 1
.SH Name
cat \- concatenate and print data
.SH Syntax
.B cat
[
.B \-b
] [
.B \-e
] [
.B \-n
] [
.B \-s
] [
.B \-t
] [
.B \-u
] [
.B \-v
]
.I file...
.br
.SH Description
.NX R "cat command"
.NX R "file" "displaying"
The
.PN cat
command reads each
.I file
in sequence and displays it on the standard output.  Therefore, to
display the file on the standard output you type:
.EX
cat file
.EE
To concatenate two files and place the result on the third you type:
.EX
cat file1 file2 > file3
.EE
To concatenate two files and append them to a third you type:
.EX
cat file1 file2 >> file3
.EE
If no input file is given, or if a minus sign (\-) is encountered as
an argument,
.PN cat
reads from the standard input file.  Output is buffered in 1024-byte
blocks unless the standard output is a terminal, in which case it is
line buffered.  The
.PN cat
utility supports the processing of 8-bit characters.
.SH Options
.TP 5
.B \-b
Ignores blank lines and precedes each output line with its line number.
.TP 
.B \-e
Displays a dollar sign ($) at the end of each output line.
.TP 
.B \-n
Precedes all output lines (including blank lines) with line numbers.
.TP 
.B \-s
Squeezes adjacent blank lines from output and single spaces output.
.TP 
.B \-t
Displays non-printing characters (including tabs) in output.  In
addition to those representations used with the
.B \-v
option, all tab characters are displayed as ^I.
.TP 
.B \-u
Unbuffers output.
.TP 
.B \-v
Displays non-printing characters (excluding tabs and newline)
as the ^x.
If the character is in the range octal 0177 to octal 0241, 
it is displayed
as M-x. The delete character (octal 0177)
displays as ^?.  For example, 
.CT X
is displayed as ^X.
.SH See Also
cp(1), ex(1), more(1), pr(1), tail(1)
