.\" SCCSID: @(#)cc.1	3.1	11/23/87
.TH cc 1 VAX
.SH Name
cc \- C compiler
.SH Syntax
.B cc
[\|\fIoptions\fR...\|] \fIfile\fR...
.SH Description
.NXS "C compiler" "cc compiler"
.NXA "cc compiler" "xstr command"
.NXA "cc compiler" "mkstr command"
.NXR "cc compiler"
The
.PN cc
command invokes
the ULTRIX C compiler and 
accepts the following types of arguments:
.IP \(bu 5
Arguments whose names end with .c 
.IP \(bu 5
Arguments whose names end with .s 
.IP \(bu 5
Other arguments that are interpreted as either loader
option arguments or 
.br
C-compatible object programs
.PP
Arguments ending in .c are interpreted as
C source programs. They are compiled, and
each object program is left on a file
whose name is the same as the source file except .o is
substituted for .c.  If a single
C program is compiled and loaded all at once, the .o
file is deleted.
.PP
Arguments ending with .s are interpreted as
assembly source programs.  They
are assembled, producing an .o file.
.PP
Arguments other than those ending with .c or .s
were produced by previous 
.PN cc
runs or by libraries of C-compatible routines.
.PP
The first argument passed to the
.MS ld 1
loader is always one of the three
.PN crt0 
files used for start up.  The compiler uses 
.PN /lib/mcrt0.o
when the \fB\-p\fR flag is given,
.PN /usr/lib/gcrt0.o
when the \fB\-pg\fR is given, and 
.PN /lib/crt0.o 
otherwise.  If loading executables by hand, you must include the
appropriate file.  
.SH Options
.NXR "cc compiler" "options"
These options are accepted by
.PN cc .
See 
.MS ld 1
for load-time options.
.TP 15
.B \-b
Does not pass 
.B \-lc
to 
.MS ld 1
by default.
.TP 
.BI \-B string
Finds substitute compiler passes in the files named
.I string
with the suffixes cpp, ccom, and c2.
.TP
.B \-bswitch
Instructs the compiler to use discrete tests for switch case
statements rather than casel instructions.
.TP
.B \-c
Suppresses the loading phase of the compilation and forces
an object file to be produced even if only one program is compiled.
.TP
.B \-C
Stops the macro preprocessor from omitting comments.
.TP
.BI \-D name=def
.br
.ns
.TP
.BI \-D name
Defines the \fIname\fR to the processor, as if by #define.
If no definition is given, the name is defined as 1.
.TP
.B \-E
Runs only the macro preprocessor on the named C programs and
sends the result to the standard output.
.TP
.B \-Em
Runs only the macro preprocessor on the named C programs and
produces the makefile dependencies.
.IP \fB\-f\fR 
Specifies that computations involving only FFLOAT numbers be
done in single precision and not promoted to double.  Procedure
arguments are still promoted to double.  Programs with a
large number of single-precision computations will run faster
with this option; however, a slight loss in precision may
result due to the saving of intermediate results in a
single-precision representation.
.IP \fB\-g\fR 
Directs the compiler to produce additional symbol table information
for 
.MS dbx 1 .
Also passes the
.B \-lg
flag to 
.MS ld 1 .
.TP
.BI \-I dir
Searches first in the directory of the \fIdir\fR argument for
\fH#include\fR files whose names do not begin with a slash (/),
then in directories named in \fB\-I\fR options,
and, finally, in directories on a standard list.
.TP
.B \-J
Uses long branches to resolve jumps when byte-displacement
branches are insufficient.  This must be used when a
compiler-generated assembly contains branches of more than
32k bytes.
.TP
.BI \-l x
Abbreviates the library name
/lib/lib\fIx\fR.a, where \fIx\fR is a
string.  If that library name does not exist,
.B ld
searches /usr/lib/lib\fIx\fR.a and then
/usr/local/lib/lib\fIx\fR.a.  The placement of the 
\fB\-l\fR library option is significant because a library
is searched when its name is encountered.
.TP
.B \-M
Specifies the floating point type to be used for double-precision
floating point and is passed on to 
.MS ld 1 
as the map option.
.TP
.B \-Md
Specifies the default DFLOAT and passes the \fB\-lc\fR flag
to 
.MS ld 1 .
.TP
.B \-Mg
Specifies GFLOAT and passes the \fB\-lcg\fR flag to 
.MS ld 1 ,
causing the GFLOAT version of \fBlibc\fR to be used.  If the math
library is used with code compiled with the \fB\-Mg\fR flag, it 
is linked to the GFLOAT version by specifying \fB\-lmg\fR on
the 
.MS cc 1
or
.MS ld 1
command.
.TP
.B "\-o \fIoutput\fR"
Names the final output file \fIoutput\fR.  If this option is
used, the file a.out
is left alone.  If the named file has either .o or .a
as a suffix, the following error message is displayed: \fB-o would
overwrite\fR.
.IP \fB\-O\fR 
Uses the object code optimizer.  
.TP
.B \-p
Arranges for the compiler to produce code
which counts the number of times each routine is called.
If loading takes place, the 
\fB\-p\fR option replaces the standard startup
routine with one that automatically calls 
.MS monitor 3 
and that arranges to write out a
mon.out
file at normal termination of execution of the object program.
An execution profile can then be generated 
using
.MS prof 1 .
.TP
.B \-pg
Causes the compiler to produce counting
code as with
.B \-p,
but invokes a run-time recorder 
that keeps more extensive statistics and produces a 
.PN gmon.out 
file.  
Also, the \fB\-pg\fR option searches
a profiling library in lieu of
the standard C library.
An execution profile can then be generated by using
.MS gprof 1 .
.TP
.B \-R
Passed on to
.I as,
which makes initialized variables shared and read-only.
.TP
.B \-S
Compiles programs and writes output to .s files.  
.TP
.B "\-t [p02al]" 
Finds the designated compiler passes in the
files whose names are constructed by a
.B \-B
option.
In the absence of a
.B \-B 
option, the
.I string
is taken to be /usr/c/.
.TP
.BI \-U name
Removes any initial definition of \fIname\fR.
.TP
.B \-w
Suppresses warning diagnostics.
.TP
.BI \-Y environment
Compiles C programs for \fIenvironment\fP.  If \fIenvironment\fP is
SYSTEM_FIVE or is omitted, it defines SYSTEM_FIVE for the preprocessor, 
.PN cpp .
If the loader is invoked, it
specifies that the System V version of the C runtime library is
used.  Also, if the math library is specified with the \fB\-lm\fR
option, the System V version is used.  If \fIenvironment\fP is
POSIX, it defines POSIX for the preprocessor.  If the environment 
variable PROG_ENV has the value SYSTEM_FIVE or POSIX, the effect is the
same as when specifying
the corresponding \fB\-Y\fIenvironment\fR option to 
.PN cc .
The \fB-Y\fP option overrides the PROG_ENV variable; \fB-YBSD\fP can be
used to override all special actions.
.SS Default Symbols
The ULTRIX C compiler provides the following default symbols
for your use.  These symbols are useful in \fHifdef\fR
statements to isolate code for one of the particular cases. 
Thus, these symbols can be useful for ensuring portable code.
.PP
.RS
.nf
.ta 1.5i
\f(CWunix\fR	Any UNIX system
\f(CWbsd4_2\fR	Berkeley UNIX Version 4.2
\f(CWultrix\fR	ULTRIX only
\f(CWvax\fR	VAX only (as opposed to PDP-11)
.fi
.RE
.SH Restrictions
.NXR "cc compiler" "restricted"
The compiler ignores advice to put 
\fBchar\fR, \fBunsigned char\fR,
\fBshort\fR or \fBunsigned short\fR variables in registers.
.PP
If the
.B \-Mg
flag is used to produce GFLOAT code,
it must be used when compiling
all the modules which are to be linked.
Use the
.B \-Mg
flag if 
you use the 
.B cc
command
to invoke
.MS ld 1
indirectly to link the modules.  If
.MS ld 1 
is invoked directly, use the
.B \-lcg
flag rather than
.B \-lc.
If the math library is used, specify the
.B \-lmg
flag rather than the
.B \-lm
flag in order to use the GFLOAT version.	
.PP 
The compiler and the linker 
.MS ld 1
cannot detect the use of mixed double floating
point types.  If you use them, your program's
results may be erroneous. 
.SH Diagnostics
The diagnostics produced by C are intended to be
self-explanatory.
Occasional messages may be produced by the assembler
or loader.
.SH Files
.PD 0
.TP 20
.PN file.c
input file
.TP
.PN file.o
object file
.TP
.PN a.out
loaded output
.TP
.PN /tmp/ctm?
temporary
.TP
.PN /lib/cpp
preprocessor
.TP
.PN /lib/ccom
compiler
.TP
.PN /lib/c2
optional optimizer
.TP
.PN /lib/crt0.o
runtime startoff
.TP
.PN /lib/mcrt0.o
startoff for profiling
.TP
.PN /usr/lib/gcrt0.o
startoff for gprof-profiling
.TP
.PN /lib/libc.a
standard library, see intro(3)
.TP
.PN /usr/libcg.a
GFLOAT version of the standard library, see intro(3)
.TP
.PN /usr/lib/libc_p.a
profiling library, see intro(3)
.TP
.PN /usr/include
standard directory for \fH#include\fR files
.TP
.PN mon.out
file produced for analysis by prof(1)
.TP
.PN gmon.out
file produced for analysis by gprof(1)
.PD
.SH See Also
adb(1), as(1), cpp(1), dbx(1), error(1), gprof(1), ld(1), 
prof(1), monitor(3)
