.\" SCCSID: @(#)chfn.1	6.1	4/27/89
.TH chfn 1
.SH Name
chfn \- change system finger entry
.SH Syntax
.B chfn
[
.I loginname
]
.SH Description
.NX R "chfn command"
.NX A "chfn command" "finger command"
.NX R "system" "changing user information"
The
.PN chfn
command
is used to change information about users.  This information is used
by the
.MS finger 1
program, among others.  It consists of the user's real name, office room
number, office phone number, and home phone number. The
.PN chfn
command prompts the user for each field.  Included in the prompt is a
default value, which is enclosed between brackets.  The default value is
accepted simply by typing <CR>.  To enter a blank field, type the word
`none'.  This is an example:
.if n .ig ++
.EX
% \f(CBchfn\fP
Changing finger information for doe
Name [John Doe]:
Office number [ABC-1/K0]: \f(CBDEF-2/K1\fP
Office Phone []: \f(CB1863\fP
Home Phone [5771546]: \f(CBnone\fP
.EE
.++
.if t .ig ++
.EX
% \fIchfn\fP
Changing finger information for doe
Name [John Doe]:
Office number [ABC-1/K0]: \fIDEF-2/K1\fP
Office Phone []: \fI1863\fP
Home Phone [5771546]: \fInone\fP
.EE
.++
.PP
The
.PN chfn
command allows phone numbers to be entered with or without hyphens.  No
entries may contain colons, commas, or control characters.
.PP
It is a good idea to run
.PN finger
after running
.PN chfn
to make sure everything is the way you want it.
.PP
The optional argument
.I loginname
is used to change another person's finger information.  This can only
be done by the superuser.
.SH Restrictions
.NX R "chfn command" "restricted"
The encoding of the office and extension information is installation
dependent.
.PP
Because two users may try to write the
.PN passwd
file at once, a synchronization method was developed.  On rare
occasions, a message that the password file is "busy" will be printed.
In this case,
.PN chfn
sleeps for a while and then tries to write to the
.PN passwd
file again.
.PP
If the passwd entry is distributed from another host
.PN chfn
will not modify it.
.NX R "passwd file (general)" "user name and"
.\# .PP
.\# The 
.\# .PN chfn
.\# command must be supplied with a user
.SH Files
.TP
.PN /etc/passwd
.TP
.PN /etc/ptmp
.SH See Also
chsh(1), finger(1), passwd(1), passwd(5yp)
