.TH compress 1 VAX
.SH Name
compress, uncompress, zcat \- compress and expand data
.SH Syntax
.B compress
[
.I options
] [
.I "name \&..."
]
.br
.B uncompress
[
.I options
] [
.I "name \&..."
]
.br
.B zcat
[
.I "name \&..."
]
.SH Description
.NXR "compress command"
The 
.PN compress
command
reduces the size of the named files using adaptive Lempel-Ziv coding.
Whenever possible,
each file is replaced by one with the extension
.B "\&.Z,"
while keeping the same ownership modes, access, and modification times.
If no files are specified, the standard input is compressed to the
standard output.
Compressed files can be restored to their original form using
.PN uncompress
or
.PN zcat .
.PP
The
.PN compress
command
uses the modified Lempel-Ziv algorithm.
Common substrings in the file are first replaced by 9-bit codes 257 and up.
When code 512 is reached, the algorithm switches to 10-bit codes and
continues to use more bits until the
limit specified by the
.B \-b
flag is reached (default 16).
The
.I bits
must be between 9 and 16.  The default can be changed in the source to allow
.PN compress
to be run on a smaller machine.
.PP
After the
.I bits
limit is attained,
.PN compress
periodically checks the compression ratio.  If the ratio is increasing,
.PN compress
continues to use the existing code dictionary.  However,
if the compression ratio decreases,
.PN compress
discards the table of substrings and rebuilds it from scratch.  This allows
the algorithm to adapt to the next block of the file.
.PP
How much each file is compressed depends on the size of the
input, the number of
.I bits
per code, and the distribution of common substrings.
Typically, text such as source code or English
is reduced by 50\-60%.
Compression is generally much better than that achieved by
Huffman coding 
or adaptive Huffman coding,
and takes less time to compute.
.PP
If an error occurs, exit status is 1.  However,
if the last file was not compressed because it became larger, the status
is 2.  Otherwise, the status is 0.
.SH Options
.IP \-b 5
The 
.B \-b
flag is omitted for
.PN uncompress ,
since the 
.I bits
parameter specified during compression
is encoded within the output along with
a number that ensures that neither decompression of random data nor
recompression of compressed data is attempted. 
.IP \-c
The cat option.  Makes
.I compress/uncompress
write to the standard output without changing any
files.
Neither
.PN uncompress
.B \-c
nor
.PN zcat
alter files.
.IP \-f
Forces compression of
.IR name ,
even if it does not actually shrink
.IR name ,
or if the corresponding \fIname\fR.Z
file already exists.
If the
.B \-f
option is omitted, the user is asked whether an existing
.IR name \&.Z
file should be overwritten unless
.PN compress
is run in the background under
.PN /bin/sh .
.IP \-q
Quiet, not as verbose.
.IP \-v
Displays the percent reduction of each file.
.IP \-V
Prints version and options.
.SH Diagnostics
.B "Usage: compress [\-fvc] [\-b maxbits] [file ...]"
.br
Invalid options were specified on the command line.
.PP
.B "Missing maxbits"
.br
Maxbits must follow
.BR \-b \.
.PP
.IR file :
.B "not in compressed format
.br
The file specified to
.I uncompress
has not been compressed.
.PP
.IR file :
.B "compressed with"
.I xx
.B "bits, can only handle"
.I yy
.B "bits"
.br
The
.I file
was compressed by a program that could deal with
more 
.I bits
than the compress code on this machine.
Recompress the file with smaller
.IR bits \.
.PP
.IR file :
.B "already has .Z suffix -- no change"
.br
The file is assumed to be compressed already.
Rename the file and try again.
.PP
.IR file :
.B "filename too long to tack on .Z"
.br
The file cannot be compressed because its name is longer than
12 characters.
Rename and try again.
.PP
.I file
.B "already exists; do you wish to overwrite (y or n)?"
.br
Type y if you want the output file to be replaced; type n if 
you do not.
.PP
.B "uncompress: corrupt input"
.br
A SIGSEGV violation was detected which usually means that the input file is
corrupted.
.PP
.B "Compression:"
.I "xx.xx%"
.br
Percent of the input saved by compression.
(For the
.B \-v 
option only.)
.PP
.B "-- not a regular file: unchanged"
.br
If the input file is not a regular file
(for example, a directory), it remains unchanged.
.PP
.B "-- has" 
.I xx 
.B "other links: unchanged"
.br
The input file has links; it is left unchanged.  See
.MS ln 1
for more information.
.PP
.B "-- file unchanged"
.br
No saving is achieved by
compression.  The input remains unchanged.
.SH Restrictions
Although compressed files are compatible between machines with large memory,
.BR \-b \12
should be used for file transfer to architectures with 
a small process data space (64KB or less). 
