.\" SCCSID: @(#)cp.1	8.1	9/11/90
.TH cp 1
.SH Name
cp \- copy file data
.SH Syntax
.B cp
[ \fB\-f\fR ] [ \fB\-i\fR ] [ \fB\-p\fR ] \fIfile1 file2\fR
.PP
.B cp
[ \fB\-f\fR ] [ \fB\-i\fR ] [ \fB\-p\fR ] [ \fB\-r\fR ] \fIfile... directory\fR
.PP
.B cp
[ \fB\-f\fR ] [ \fB\-i\fR ] [ \fB\-p\fR ] [ \fB\-r\fR ] \fIdirectory... directory\fR
.SH Description
.NXR "cp command"
.NXR "file" "copying"
.NXA "cp command" "dd command"
.NXA "cp command" "mv command"
The
.PN cp
command copies
.I file1
onto
.IR file2 .
The mode and owner of  
.I file2
are preserved if it already
existed; the mode of 
.I file1
is used otherwise.  Note that the
.PN cp
command will not copy a file onto itself.
.PP
In the second form, one or more 
.I files 
are copied into the
.I directory 
with their original file names.
.PP
In the third form, one or more source
.I directories
are copied into the destination
.I directory
with their original file names.
.SH Options
.IP \-f 5
Forces existing destination pathnames to be removed
before copying, without prompting for confirmation.
The
.B \-i
option is ignored if the
.B \-f
option is specified.
.IP \-i 5
Prompts user with the name of file
whenever the copy will cause an old file to be
overwritten. A yes answer will cause 
.PN cp
to continue. Any other answer will prevent it
from overwriting the file.
.IP \-p
Preserves (duplicates) in the copies the modification
time, access time, file mode, user ID, and group ID as allowed
by the permissions of the source files, ignoring the present
umask.
.IP \-r
Copies directories. Entire directory trees, including their 
subtrees and the individual files they contain, are copied to 
the specified destination directory. The directory, its subtrees, 
and the individual files retain their original names. For example, 
to copy the directory 
.PN reports ,
including all of its subtrees 
and files, into the directory 
.PN news, 
enter the following command:
.EX
cp \-r reports news
.EE
.SH See Also
cat(1), pr(1), mv(1)
