.\" SCCSID: @(#)find.1	2.3	6/8/87
.TH find 1 
.SH Name
find \- find files
.SH Syntax
.B find
\fIpathname-list  expression\fR
.SH Description
.NXR "find command"
.NXR "file" "finding"
.NXA "find command" "test command"
The
.PN find
command recursively descends
the directory hierarchy for
each pathname in the
.I pathname-list
(that is, one or more pathnames)
seeking files that match a boolean
.I expression
written in the primaries given below.
In the descriptions, the argument
.I n
is used as a decimal integer
where
.I +n
means more than
.I n,
.I \-n
means less than
.I n ,
and
.I n
means exactly
.IR n .
.SH Options
.IP "\fB\-atime\fI n\fR" 15
Tests true if the file has been accessed in
.I n
days.
.IP "\fB\-cpio\fR \fIoutput\fR" 15
Writes current file on
.I output
in the format (5120-byte records) specified in the
.MS cpio 5
reference page.  The
.I output 
can be either a file or tape device.  If 
.I output 
is a tape device the 
.PN cpio
B key must be used to read data from the tape.
.IP "\fB\-ctime\fI n\fR" 15
Tests true if the file has been changed in
.I n
days.
.IP "\fB\-depth\fR" 15
Always true;
causes descent of the directory hierarchy to be done
so that all entries in a directory are acted on 
before the directory itself (that is, postorder instead of preorder).
This can be useful when
.PN find
is used with
.PN cpio
to transfer files
that are contained in directories without
write permission.
.IP "\fB\-exec\fR command" 15
Tests true if specified command returns a 0 on exit.  
The end of the command must be punctuated by an escaped
semicolon.
A command argument `{}' is replaced by the
current pathname.
.IP "\fB\-group\fR gname" 15
Tests true if group ID matches specified group name.  
.IP "\fB\-inum\fI n\fR" 15
Tests true if the file has inode number
.I n.
.IP "\fB\-links\fI n\fR" 15
Tests true if the file has
.I n
links.
.IP \fB\-mount\fR 15
Tests true if
the current file is on the same file system as the current starting pathname.
.IP "\fB\-mtime\fI n\fR" 15
Tests true if the file has been modified in
.I n
days.
.IP "\fB\-name\fR filename" 15
Tests true if the
.I filename
argument matches the current file name.
Normal
Shell
argument syntax may be used if escaped (watch out for
`[', `?' and `*').
.IP "\fB\-newer\fR file" 15
Tests true if
the current file has been modified more recently than the argument \fIfile\fR.
.IP "\fB\-ok\fR command" 15
Executes specified command on
standard output, then standard input
is read and command executed only
upon response 
.B y.  
.IP "\fB\-perm\fR onum" 15
Tests true if file has specified octal number.  
For further information, see 
.MS chmod 1 .
If
.I onum
is prefixed by a minus sign,
more flag bits (017777)
become significant and
the flags are compared:
.IR (flags&onum)==onum .
For further information, see 
.MS stat 2 .
.IP \fB\-print\fR 15
Prints current pathname. 
.IP "\fB\-size\fI n\fR" 15
Tests true if the file is
.I n
blocks long (512 bytes per block).
.IP "\fB\-type\fI c\fR" 15
Tests true if file
is
.I c
type (
.I c
=
.B b,
block special file:
.B c,
character special file:
.B d,
directory:
.B f,
plain file:
.B l,
symbolic link:
.B p,
type port:
.B s,
type socket). 
.IP "\fB\-user\fR uname" 15
Tests true if file owner is login name or numeric user ID.  
.PP
The primaries may be combined using the following operators
(in order of decreasing precedence):
.TP 4
1)
A parenthesized group of primaries and operators
(parentheses are special to the Shell and must be escaped).
.TP 4
2)
The negation of a primary
(`!' is the unary
.I not
operator).
.TP 4
3)
Concatenation of primaries
(the
.I and
operation
is implied by the juxtaposition of two primaries).
.TP 4
4)
Alternation of primaries
.RB "(`" \-o "' is the"
.I or
operator).
.SH Examples
To remove all files named
`a.out' or `*.o' that have not been accessed for a week:
.EX
find / \\( \-name a.out \-o \-name '*.o' \\) \\
\-atime +7 \-exec rm {} \\;
.EE
.PP
To find all files on the root file system type:
.EX
find / \-mount \-print
.EE
.PP
To write all the files on the root file system to tape:
.EX
find / \-mount \-print \-cpio /dev/rmt?h
cpio \-iBvt < /dev/rmt?h
.EE
.PP
To find all the mount points on the root file system type:
.EX
find / ! \-mount \-print
.EE
.SH Files
.PN /etc/passwd
.br
.PN /etc/group
.SH See Also
cpio(1), sh(1), test(1), cpio(5), fs(5)
