.TH folder 1mh
.SH Name
folder \- set folder or display current folder name
.SH Syntax
.NXR "folder command"
.NXR "Setting current folder"
.B folder
[
.I +folder
] [
.I msg
] [
.I options
]
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Description
The 
.PN folder
command lets you set the current folder,
or display information about it.
It can also be used to manage the folder stack.  
.PP
If you use the
.PN folder 
command without a 
.I +folder
argument, information about the current folder
is displayed on the screen.
If you use 
.PN folder 
with the 
.I +folder
argument, the named folder
is set to be the current folder.  
Information about the named folder
is also displayed on the screen.
.PP
If you use
.PN folder
with the 
.I msg
argument, it will set the specified message to be current.
Information on the current folder is also displayed.
You can use both the 
.I +folder
and
.I msg
arguments together in one command.
.PP
If you specify a 
.I +folder
that does not exist, you are asked 
whether you want to create it.  
This is a good way to create an empty folder for later use.  
.PP
The display is identical whether you set the folder 
or display the contents of the current folder.  
The following example shows the type of display that is produced.  
The display lists the current folder, 
the number of messages in it, 
the range of the messages (low-high), 
and the current message within the folder. 
It also flags extra files if they exist.
.EX
                 inbox+ has   16 messages (   3-  22); cur=  15.
.EE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Options
.IP "\-all" 10
Displays information on all the folders in your Mail directory.
The folders are listed alphabetically,
with a line of information given for each folder.
This is identical to the display produced by the
.PN folders
command.
See
.MS folders 1mh .
.\"
.IP "\-fast" 10
.PD 0
.IP "\-nofast"
.PD
Lists only the name of the current folder,
with no additional information.
This is faster because the folders need not be read.
.\"
.IP "\-header" 10
.PD 0
.IP "\-noheader" 10
.PD
Displays a header produced by the system, 
in addition to the information about the current file.
This header is identical to the one that appears
at the top of the listing produced by
.PN "folder -all"
or by
.PN folders .
The header can be suppressed by using the
.B \-noheader
option.
.\"
.IP "\-help" 10
Prints a list of the valid options to this command.
.\"
.IP "\-list" 10
.PD 0
.IP "\-nolist" 10
.PD
Lists the contents of the folder-stack.
No 
.I +folder
argument is allowed with this option.
The contents of the folder-stack are listed automatically
when the
.B \-pop
or 
.B \-push 
option is used.
This corresponds to the 
.PN dirs
operation in the C-shell.
.\"
.IP "\-pack" 10
.PD 0
.IP "\-nopack"
.PD
Re-numbers messages in the folder.
Messages are re-numbered sequentially, 
and any gaps in the numbering are removed.
The default operation is
\fB\-nopack\fR,
which does not change the numbering in the folder.
.\"
.IP "\-pop" 10
Discards the top of the folder-stack,
after setting the current folder to that value.
No 
.I +folder
argument is allowed with this option.
This corresponds to the 
.PN popd
operation in the C-shell;
see 
.MS csh 1 .
The 
.B \-push
and
.B \-pop
options are mutually exclusive:
the last occurrence of either one overrides 
any previous occurrence of the other.
.\"
.\"
.\" *** -print option commented out
.\" *** no information on it at this time
.ig
.IP "\-print" 10
.PD 0
.IP "\-noprint" 10
.PD
..
.\"
.IP "\-push" 10
Pushes the current folder onto the folder-stack,
and makes the 
.I +folder
argument into the current folder.
If 
.I +folder
is not given, the current folder 
and the top of the folder-stack are exchanged.
This corresponds to the 
.PN pushd
operation in the C-shell; see 
.MS csh 1 .
The
.B \-push
switch and the
.B \-pop
switch are mutually exclusive:
the last occurrence of either one overrides any previous occurrence of the
other.
.\"
.IP "\-recurse" 10
.PD 0
.IP "\-norecurse" 10
.PD
Lists each folder recursively.
Information on the current folder is displayed,
followed by information on any sub-folders which it contains.
.\"
.IP "\-total" 10
.PD 0
.IP "\-nototal" 10
.PD
Displays only the total number of messages and folders
in your Mail directory.
This option does not print any information about the current folder.
It can be suppressed using the 
.B \-nototal
option.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.PP
The defaults for
.PN folder
are:
.IP
.I +folder
defaults to the current folder
.br
.I msg
defaults to none
.br
.B \-nofast
.br
.B \-noheader
.br
.B \-nototal
.br
.B \-nopack
.br
.B \-norecurse
.\"
.\"
.\" *** -print option commented out
.ig
.br
.B \-print
is the default if
.B \-list ,
.B \-push
or 
.B \-pop
are specified.
..
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Examples
The following example shows how 
.PN folder
can be used to change the current folder to
.PN +test ,
and display information on that folder.
The plus sign (\f(CW+\fR) next to 
.PN test
indicates that it is now the current folder.
.EX
% \f(CBfolder +test\f(CW
                  test+ has    2 messages (   1-   2); cur=   2.
.EE
.PP
The next example shows the display produced by using the
.B "\-all"
option to
.PN folder :
.EX
  Folder      # of messages (  range  ); cur  msg  (other files)
    V2.3  has    3 messages (   1-   3).
  adrian  has   20 messages (   1-  20); cur=   2.
   brian  has   16 messages (   1-  16).
   chris  has   12 messages (   1-  12).
 copylog  has  242 messages (   1- 242); cur= 225.
   inbox+ has   73 messages (   1- 127); cur= 127.
     int  has    4 messages (   1-   4); cur=   2  (others).
    jack  has   17 messages (   1-  17); cur=  17.


             TOTAL= 387 messages in 8 folders.
.EE
.PP
This display is identical to that produced by the
.PN folders
command.
See
.MS folders 1mh
for an explanation of this display.
.PP
The next example shows how to use
.PN folder 
to create an empty folder:
.EX
% \f(CBfolder +test\f(CW
Create folder "$HOME/Mail/test"? \f(CBy\f(CW
          test+ has no messages.
.EE
.PP
You can also use
.PN folder 
to create an empty sub-folder within an existing folder.
The following example shows how you can create a sub-folder in the folder 
.PN +test :
.EX
% \f(CBfolder +test/testtwo\f(CW
Create folder "$HOME/Mail/test/testwo"? \f(CBy\f(CW
          test/testtwo+ has no messages.
.EE
See
.MS refile 1mh
for more details of sub-folders.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Files
.TP 10
.PN $HOME/\&.mh_profile
The user profile.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Profile Components
.TS
tab(+);
l l.
Path:+To determine your MH directory
Current-Folder:+To find the default current folder
Folder-Protect:+To set mode when creating a new folder
Folder-Stack:+To determine the folder stack
lsproc:+Program to list the contents of a folder
.TE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH See Also
csh(1), refile(1mh), mhpath(1mh)
