.\" SCCSID: @(#)fsplit.1	8.1	9/11/90
.TH fsplit 1 VAX "" Unsupported
.SH Name
fsplit \- split a multi-routine Fortran file into individual files
.SH Syntax
.B fsplit
[\fB\-e\fI efile...\fR\|] [\|\fIfile\fR\|]
.SH Description
.NXR "fsplit program"
.NXR "Fortran program" "breaking into separate files"
The
.PN fsplit
command takes as input either a file or
standard input containing Fortran source code.
It attempts to split the input into separate routine files of the
form
.I name.f,
where
.I name
is the name of the program unit
(for example, function, subroutine, block data or
program).  The name for unnamed block data subprograms has the form
.I blkdtaNNN.f
where NNN is three digits and a file of this name does not
already exist.
For unnamed main programs the name has the form
.I mainNNN.f.
If there is an error in classifying a program unit, or if
.I name.f
already exists,
the program unit is put in a file of the form 
.I zzzNNN.f
where 
.I zzzNNN.f 
does not already exist.
.PP
Normally each subprogram unit is split into a separate file.  
.SH Options
.IP "\fB\-\|e\fI efile\fR" 12
Splits only specified subprogram units into separate files.
.SH Examples
The following example splits readit and doit into separate files:
.EX
fsplit \-e readit \-e doit prog.f
.EE
.SH Restrictions
The
.PN fsplit
command assumes the subprogram name is on the
first noncomment line of the subprogram
unit.  Nonstandard source formats may confuse 
.PN fsplit .
.PP
It is hard to use 
\fB\-e\fR
for unnamed main programs and block data subprograms since you must 
predict the created file name.
.SH Diagnostics
If names specified using the 
.B \-e
option are not found, a diagnostic is written to 
.I standard error.
