.\" SCCSID: @(#)get.1	8.1	9/11/90
.tr ~
.nr f 0
.de SP
.if n .ul
\%[\fB\-\\$1\fR\\c
.if n .ul 0
\\$2\\$3
..
.de SF
.if n .ul
\%[\fB\-\\$1\fR]
.if n .ul 0
..
.ds M)  \fB\s-1MR\s+1\fR
.ds R)  \fB\s-1RELEASE NUMBER\s+1\fR
.ds S)  SCCS
.\".ds S)  \s-1SCCS\s+1
.\".ds I)  \s-1SID\s+1
.ds I)  SID
.TH get 1
.SH Name
get \- get a copy of SCCS file
.SH Syntax
.B get
[\fB\-r\fISCCS\fR\|]
[\fB\-c\fIcutoff\fR\|]
[\fB\-i\fIlist\fR\|]
[\fB\-x\fIlist\fR\|]
[\fB\-a\fIseq-no.\fR\|]
[\fB\-k\fR]
[\fB\-e\fR]
[\fB\-l\fR\|[\fBp\fR\|]\|]
[\fB\-p\fR]
[\fB\-m\fR]
[\fB\-n\fR]
[\fB\-s\fR]
[\fB\-b\fR]
[\fB\-g\fR]
[\fB\-t\fR] \fIfile...\fR
.SH Description
.NXB "get command (sccs)"
.NXB "SCCS file" "getting"
.NXA "get command (sccs)" "delta command (sccs)"
.NXA "get command (sccs)" "unget command (sccs)"
.NXA "get command (sccs)" "rmdel command (sccs)"
.NXS "SCCS identification string" "SID"
The
.PN get
command generates an \s-1ASCII\s+1 text file from
each named \*(S) file according to the specifications given
by its options.
The options, which begin with \fB\-\fR,
can be specified in any order,
but all options apply to all named \*(S) files.
If a directory is named,
.PN get
behaves as though each file in the directory were
specified as a named file,
except that non-\*(S) files
(last component of the path name does not begin with
.BR s. )
and unreadable files are silently ignored.
If a name of \fB\-\fR is given, the standard input is read;
each line of the standard input is taken to be the name of an \*(S) file
to be processed.
Again, non-\*(S) files and unreadable files are silently ignored.
.PP
The generated text is normally written into a file called the
.I g-file
whose name is derived from the \*(S) file name by simply
removing the leading
\fBs.\fR;
(see also \fI\s-1FILES\s+1\fP, below).
.PP
Each of the options is explained below
as though only one \*(S) file is to be processed,
but the effects of any options applies independently to
each named file.
.SH Options
.NXR "get command (sccs)" "options"
.IP \fB\-r\fISID\fR 12
Indicates specified delta version number.  
Table~1 below shows, for the most useful cases, what version
of an \*(S) file is retrieved (as well as the \*(I)
of the version to be eventually created by
.MS delta 1
if the
.B \-e
option is also used),
as a function of the \*(I) specified.
.IP \fB\-c\fIcutoff\fR 12
The \fIcutoff\fR is a date-time in the following form:
.EX
	\s-1YY[MM[DD[HH[MM[SS]]]]]\s+1
.EE
No changes (deltas) to the \*(S) file that were created after
the specified \fIcutoff\fR date-time are included in the generated
\s-1ASCII\s+1 text file.
Units omitted from the date-time default
to their maximum possible values;
that is,
.B \-c7502
is equivalent to
.BR \-c750228235959 .
Any number of non-numeric characters may separate
the various two digit pieces of the \fIcutoff\fR date-time.
This feature allows one to specify a \fIcutoff\fR date in the form:
\&"\fB\-c77/2/2 9:22:25\fP".
.IP \fB\-e\fR 12
Gets specified delta version for edit.  
The
.B \-e
option used in a
.PN get
for a particular version (\*(I)) of the \*(S) file prevents
further
.PN gets
from editing on the same \*(I) until
.PN delta
is executed or the
.B j
(joint edit) flag is set in the \*(S) file,
see
.MS admin 1 .
Concurrent use of
.PN get \-e
for different \*(I)s is always allowed.
If the SCCS front end processor is used,
the command
.PN get \-e
is replaced by
.B edit.
.IP
If the
.I g-file
generated by
.PN get
with an
.B \-e
option is accidentally ruined while being edited,  
it may be regenerated by re-executing the
.PN get
command with the
.B \-k
option
in place of the \fB\-e\fP option.
.IP
SCCS
file protection specified by the
ceiling, floor, and authorized user list
stored in the \*(S) file
are enforced when the
.B \-e
option is used.
For further information, see 
.MS admin 1 .
.IP \fB\-b\fR 12
Gets delta from new branch and must be used with 
.B \-e 
option.
This option is ignored if the
.B b
flag is not present in the file
or if the retrieved
delta is not a leaf delta.
For further information, see 
.MS admin 1 .
A leaf delta is one that has no successors on
the \*(S) file tree.
.NT
A branch delta may always be 
created from a nonleaf delta.
.NE
.IP \fB\-i\fIlist\fR 12
Includes specified list of deltas.  
The \fIlist\fR has the following syntax:
.IP
	<list> ::= <range> \(or <list> , <range>
.br
	<range> ::= \*(I) \(or \*(I) \- \*(I)
.IP
\*(I), may
be in any form shown in the ``\*(I) Specified'' column of
Table~1.
Partial \*(I)s are interpreted as shown in the ``\*(I) Retrieved''
column of Table~1.
.IP \fB\-x\fIlist\fR 12
Excludes specified list of deltas.  
See the
.B \-i
option for the \fIlist\fR format.
.IP \fB\-k\fR 12
Does not expand ID keywords.   
The
.B \-k
option
is implied by the
.B \-e
option.
.IP \fB\-l [ p ]\fR 12
Writes
a delta
summary to an
\fIl-file.\fR
If
.B \-lp
is used
then an
.I l-file
is not created;
the delta summary is written on the standard output instead.
See \fB\s-1FILES\s+1\fP for the format of the
\fIl-file.\fR
.IP \fB\-p\fR 12
Writes text to stdout.  
No
.I g-file
is created.
All output which normally goes to the standard output
goes to file descriptor 2 instead,
unless the
.B \-s
option is used,
in which case it disappears.
.IP \fB\-s\fR 12
Suppresses all messages, except those for fatal errors.  
However,
fatal error messages, which always go to file descriptor
2, remain unaffected.
.IP \fB\-m\fR 12
Precedes each text line with delta version number.  
The format is:
\*(I),
followed by a horizontal tab, followed by the text line.
.IP \fB\-n\fR 12
Precedes each text line with identification keyword.  
The format is:
%\&M\&% value,
followed by a horizontal tab,
followed by the text line.
When both the
.B \-m
and
.B \-n
option are used,
the format is:
%\&M\&% value,
followed by a horizontal tab,
followed by the
.B \-m
option generated format.
.IP \fB\-g\fR 12
Suppresses
the actual retrieval of text from the \*(S) file.
It is primarily used to generate an
\fIl-file\fR,
or to verify the existence of a particular \*(I).
.IP \fB\-t\fR 12
Gets most recently created (top) delta.  
For example,
.BR \-r1 ),
or
release and level,
for example,
.BR \-r1.2 ).
.IP \fB\-u\fR 12
Sets the time of the g\-file to the time of the s\-file.  This results
in a g-file with a time equal to the last delta.  This is useful for
build scripts which extract all files from the SCCS database and then do
a make.
.IP \fB\-a\fIseq-no.\fR 12
Retrieves the specified delta sequence number.  
For further information, see 
.MS sccsfile 5 .
This option is used by the
.PN comb
command.
It is not a generally useful option,
and users should not use it.
If both the
.B \-r
and
.B \-a
option are specified,
the
.B \-a
option is used.
Care should be taken when using the
.B \-a
option in conjunction with the
.B \-e
option,
as the \*(I) of the delta to be created
may not be what one expects.
The
.B \-r
option can be used with the
.B \-a
and
.B \-e
option to control the naming of the \*(I) of the delta to
be created.
.i0
.PP
For each file processed,
.PN get
responds (on the standard output) with the
\*(I)
being accessed and
with the number of lines retrieved from the \*(S) file.
.PP
If the
.B \-e
option is used, the
\*(I)
of the delta to be made appears
after the
\*(I)
accessed and before the number of lines generated.
If there is more than one named file
or if a directory or standard input is named,
each file name is printed
(preceded by a new-line)
before it is processed.
If the
.B \-i
option is used included deltas are listed following the
notation ``Included'';
if the
.B \-x
option is used, excluded deltas are listed following the
notation ``Excluded''.
.PP
The \s-1SCCS\s+1 identification strings are 
defined in the following table:
.PP
.TS
center ;
lfHB lfHB lfHB lfHB lfHB
lfHB lfHB lfHB lfHB lfHB
l l l l l .
_
.sp 4p
\s-1SID\s+1*	\fB\-b\fP Option	Other	\s-1SID\s+1	\s-1SID\s+1 of Delta
Specified	Used\(dg	Conditions	Retrieved	to be Created
.sp 4p
_
.sp 6p
none\(dd	no	R defaults to mR	mR.mL	mR.(mL\^+1)
none\(dd	yes	R defaults to mR	mR.mL	mR.mL.(mB\^+1).1
R	no	R > mR	mR.mL	R.1***
R	no	R = mR	mR.mL	mR.(mL\^+1)
R	yes	R > mR	mR.mL	mR.mL.(mB\^+1).1
R	yes	R = mR	mR.mL	mR.mL.(mB\^+1).1
R	\-	R < mR and	hR.mL**	hR.mL.(mB\^+1).1
\^	\^	R does \fInot\fP exist	\^	\^
R	\-	Trunk succ.#	R.mL	R.mL.(mB\^+1).1
\^	\^	in release > R	\^	\^
\^	\^	and R exists	\^	\^
R.L	no	No trunk succ.	R.L	R.(L\^+1)
R.L	yes	No trunk succ.	R.L	R.L.(mB\^+1).1
R.L	\-	Trunk succ.	R.L	R.L.(mB\^+1).1
\^	\^	in release \(>= R	\^	\^
R.L.B	no	No branch succ.	R.L.B.mS	R.L.B.(mS\^+1)
R.L.B	yes	No branch succ.	R.L.B.mS	R.L.(mB\^+1).1
R.L.B.S	no	No branch succ.	R.L.B.S	R.L.B.(S\^+1)
R.L.B.S	yes	No branch succ.	R.L.B.S	R.L.(mB\^+1).1
R.L.B.S	\-	Branch succ.	R.L.B.S	R.L.(mB\^+1).1
.sp 6p
_
.TE
.TP "\w@***\ \ \ @u"
*
R, L, B, and S are the release, level,
branch, and sequence components of the \s-1SID\s+1, 
in that order;
m means maximum.
Thus, for example, R.mL means the maximum
level number within release R;
R.L.(mB+1).1 means
the first sequence number on the
new branch (that is, maximum branch number plus
one) of level L within release R.
Note that if the \s-1SID\s+1 specified is of the form R.L,
R.L.B, or R.L.B.S, each of the
specified components must exist.
.TP
**
hR is the highest
existing release that is lower than
the specified, nonexistent, release\ R.
.TP
***
This is used to force creation of the
first delta in a new release.
.TP
#
Successor.
.TP
\(dg
The
.B \-b
option is effective only if the
.B b
flag 
is present in the file.
An entry of \fB\-\fR means ``irrelevant''.
For further information, see 
.MS admin 1 .
.TP
\(dd
This case applies if the
.B d
(default SID) flag is not present in the file.  If the
.B d
flag is present in the file, then the
SID obtained from the
.B d
flag is interpreted as if it had been specified on the command line.
Thus, one of the other cases in this table applies.
.SH Identification Keywords
.NXR "get command (sccs)" "identification keywords"
Identifying information
is inserted into the text retrieved from the \*(S) file by replacing
identification keywords
with their value wherever they occur.
The following keywords may be used in the text stored in an \*(S) file:
.TP 10
.I Keyword
.TP
.B %\&M\&%
Module name:
either the value of the
.B m
flag in the file
or if absent,
the name of the \*(S) file with the
leading
.B s.
removed.
For further information, see 
.MS admin 1 .
.TP
.B %\&I\&%
\*(S) identification (\*(I)) (%\&R\&%.%\&L\&%.%\&B\&%.%\&S\&%) of the retrieved text.
.TP
.B %\&R\&%
Release.
.TP
.B %\&L\&%
Level.
.TP
.B %\&B\&%
Branch.
.TP
.B %\&S\&%
Sequence.
.TP
.B %\&D\&%
Current date (\s-1YY/MM/DD\s+1).
.TP
.B %\&H\&%
Current date (\s-1MM/DD/YY\s+1).
.TP
.B %\&T\&%
Current time (\s-1HH:MM:SS\s+1).
.TP
.B %\&E\&%
Date newest applied delta was created (\s-1YY/MM/DD\s+1).
.TP
.B %\&G\&%
Date newest applied delta was created (\s-1MM/DD/YY\s+1).
.TP
.B %\&U\&%
The time the newest applied delta was created (\s-1HH:MM:SS\s+1).
.TP
.B %\&Y\&%
Module type:
value of the
.B t
flag in the \*(S) file
For further information, see 
.MS admin 1 .
.TP
.B %\&F\&%
\*(S) file name.
.TP
.B %\&P\&%
Fully qualified \*(S) file name.
.TP
.B %\&Q\&%
The
value of the
.B q
flag in the file.
For further information, see 
.MS admin 1 .
.TP
.B %\&C\&%
Current line number.
This keyword is intended for identifying output program messages
such as ``this shouldn't have happened'' type errors.
It is not intended to be used on every line to provide
sequence numbers.
.TP
.B %\&Z\&%
The 4-character string \fB@(#)\fR
recognizable by
.MS what 1 .
.TP
.B %\&W\&%
A shorthand notation for constructing
.MS what 1
strings
for \s-1UNIX\s+1 program files.
%\&W\&%~=~%\&Z\&%%\&M\&%<horizontal-tab>%\&I\&%
.TP
.B %\&A\&%
Another shorthand notation for constructing
.MS what 1
strings
for non-\s-1UNIX\s+1 program files.
%\&A\&%~=~%\&Z\&%%\&Y\&%~%\&M\&%~%\&I\&%%\&Z\&%
.SH Restrictions
.NXR "get command (sccs)" "restricted"
If the user has
write permission in the directory
containing the 
.I g-files,
but the real user does not,
then only one file can be named when the
.B \-e
option is used.
.SH Diagnostics
See
.MS sccshelp 1 
for explanations.
.SH Files
.NXR "get command (sccs)" "auxiliary file list"
Several auxiliary files may be created by
.PN get ,
These files are known generically as the
\fIg-file, l-file, p-file,\fR
and
\fIz-file\fR.
The letter before the hyphen is called the tag.
An auxiliary file name is formed from the \*(S) file name:
the last component of
all \*(S) file names must be of the form \fBs.\fP\fImodule-name\fP,
the auxiliary files are named by replacing the leading \fBs\fR
with the tag.
The
.I g-file
is an exception to this scheme:
the
.I g-file
is named by removing
the
.B s.
prefix.
For example,
.BR s.xyz.c ,
the auxiliary file names would be
.BR xyz.c ,
.BR l.xyz.c ,
.BR p.xyz.c ,
and
.BR z.xyz.c ,
respectively.
.PP
The
\fIg-file\fR,
which contains the generated text,
is created
in the current directory
(unless the
.B \-p
option is used).
A
.I g-file
is created in all cases, whether or not any lines of text
were generated by the
.PN get .
It is owned by the real user.
If the
.B \-k
option is used or implied its mode is 644;
otherwise its mode is 444.
Only the real user need have
write permission in the current
directory.
.PP
The
.I l-file
contains
a table showing which deltas were applied
in generating the retrieved text.
The
.I l-file
is created
in the current directory
if the
.B \-l
option is used;
its mode is 444 and it is owned by the real user.
Only the real user need have
write permission in the
current directory.
.PP
Lines in the
.I l-file
have the following format:
.PP
.PD 0
.RS
.nr a 0 1
.af a a
.TP
\n+a.
A blank character if the delta was applied;
.br
\fB\(**\fR otherwise.
.TP
\n+a.
A blank character if the delta was applied or wasn't applied and ignored;
.br
\fB\(**\fR if the delta wasn't applied and wasn't ignored.
.TP
\n+a.
A code indicating a ``special'' reason
why the delta was or was not applied:
.RS 10
\'I': Included.
.br
\'X': Excluded.
.br
\'C': Cut off (by a
.B \-c
option).
.RE
.TP
\n+a.
Blank.
.TP
\n+a.
\*(S) identification (\*(I)).
.TP
\n+a.
Tab character.
.TP
\n+a.
Date and time (in the form
\s-1YY/MM/DD~HH:MM:SS\s+1)
of creation.
.TP
\n+a.
Blank.
.TP
\n+a.
Login name of person who created delta.
.PD
.RE
.IP
The
comments and \*(M) data follow on subsequent lines,
indented one horizontal tab character.
A blank line terminates each entry.
.PP
The
.I p-file
is used to
pass information resulting from a
.PN get
with an
.B \-e
option along to
delta.
Its contents are also used to prevent a subsequent
execution of
.PN get
with an
.B \-e
option
for the same \*(I) until delta
is executed or the joint edit flag,
.BR j ,
see
.MS admin 1 ,
is set in the \*(S) file.
.PP
The
.I p-file
is created in the directory containing the \*(S) file
and the effective user must have
write permission
in that directory.
Its mode is 644 and it is owned by the effective user.
.PP
The format of the
.I p-file
is the following:
the gotten \*(I),
followed by a blank,
followed by the \*(I) that the new delta will have when it is made,
followed by a blank,
followed by the login name of the real user,
followed by a blank,
followed by the date-time
the
.PN get
was executed,
followed by a blank and the
.B \-i
option if it was present,
followed by a blank and the
.B \-x
option if it was present,
followed by a new-line.
There can be an arbitrary number of lines in the
.I p-file
at any time;
no two lines can have the same new delta \*(I).
.PP
The
.I z-file
serves as a
.I lock-out
mechanism against simultaneous updates.
Its contents are
the binary (two bytes) process \s-1ID\s+1 of the
command
.PN get
that created it.
The
.I z-file
is created in the directory containing the \*(S) file for the duration of 
.PN get .
The same protection restrictions for the
.I p-file
apply for the
\fIz-file\fR.
The
.I z-file
is
created mode 444.
.tr ~~
.SH See Also
admin(1), delta(1), prs(1), sccs(1), sccsfile(5), sccshelp(1),
what(1)
.br
\fIGuide to the Source Code Control System\fP
.NXE "get command (sccs)"
.NXE "SCCS file" "getting"
