.\" SCCSID: @(#)graph.1g	8.1	9/11/90
.TH graph 1g
.SH Name
graph \- draw a graph
.SH Syntax
.B graph
[\|\fIoption...\fR\|] 
.SH Description
.NXA "graph command" "spline command"
.NXA "graph command" "plot command"
.NXR "graph" "drawing"
.NXR "graph command"
The
.PN graph
command with no options takes pairs of numbers from the
standard input as abscissas and
ordinates of a graph.
Successive points are connected by straight lines.
The graph is encoded on the standard output
for display by the 
.MS plot 1g
filters.
.PP
If the coordinates of a point are followed by
a nonnumeric string, that string is printed as a
label beginning on the point.
Labels may be surrounded with quotes "...", in
which case they may be empty or contain blanks
and numbers;
labels never contain new lines.
.PP
A legend indicating grid range is produced
with a grid unless the
.B \-s
option is present.
.PP
If a specified lower limit exceeds the upper limit,
the axis
is reversed.
.SH Options
.NXR "graph command" "options"
.IP \fB\-a\fR 12
Supplies abscissas automatically and uses next two arguments 
to set spacing and
starting point.
Spacing is given by the next
argument (default 1).
A second optional argument is the starting point for
automatic abscissas (default 0 or lower limit given by
.BR \-x ).
.IP \fB\-b\fR 
Breaks graph after each label in the input.
.IP \fB\-c\fR 
Uses specified string (next argument) as label.
.IP \fB\-g\fR 
Uses specified number (next argument) in setting up
grid style:  0 (no grid), 1 (frame with ticks),
and 2 (full grid).  Default is 2.
.IP \fB\-h\fR 
Uses specified number (next argument) as fraction of space for height.
.IP \fB\-l\fR 
Uses specified string (next argument) as graph label. 
.IP \fB\-m\fR 
Uses specified number (next argument) in setting up line mode:  0
(disconnected) and 1 (connected).  Default is 1.
.IP \fB\-r\fR 
Uses specified number (next argument) as fraction of space to right before
plotting.
.IP \fB\-s\fR 
Saves screen (no erase) before plotting.
.IP \fB\-t\fR 
Transposes vertical and horizontal axes.
.IP \fB\-u\fR 
Uses specified number (next argument) as fraction of space to move up 
before plotting.
.IP \fB\-w\fR 
Uses specified number (next argument) as fraction of space for width.
.IP "\fB\-x\fR [ \fBl\fR ]" 
Determines x axis logarithmically.  Next two arguments after 
.B l
determine lower and upper
.I x
limits respectively.  The third argument determines grid spacing on 
.I x
axis.
.IP "\fB\-y\fR [ \fBl\fR ]" 
Same as 
.B x
but for 
.B y
axis.
.SH Restrictions
.NXR "graph command" "restricted"
The
.PN graph
command stores all points internally and drops those for which
there is not room.
.sp
Segments that run out of bounds are dropped, not windowed.
.sp
Logarithmic axes may not be reversed.
.SH See Also
plot(1g), spline(1g)
