.\" SCCSID: @(#)grep.1	8.1	9/11/90
.TH grep 1
.SH Name
grep, egrep, fgrep \- search file for regular expression
.SH Syntax
.B grep
[\|\fIoption...\fR\|] 
\fIexpression\fR [\|\fIfile...\fR\|] 
.PP
.B egrep 
[\|\fIoption...\fR\|] 
[\|\fIexpression\fR\|]
[\|\fIfile...\fR\|] 
.PP
.B fgrep
[\|\fIoption...\fR\|] 
[\|\fIstrings\fR\|]
[\|\fIfile\fR\|]
.SH Description
.NXR "grep command"
.NXR "egrep command"
.NXR "fgrep command"
.NXR "file" "finding pattern"
.NXA "grep command" "sed stream editor"
Commands of the
.PN grep
family search the input
.I files
(standard input default) for lines matching a pattern.
Normally, each line found is copied to the standard output.
.PP
The
.PN grep
command patterns are limited regular expressions in the style of
.MS ex 1 ,
which uses a compact nondeterministic algorithm.
The
.PN egrep
command patterns are full regular expressions. 
The
.PN egrep
command uses a fast deterministic
algorithm that sometimes needs exponential space.
The
.PN fgrep
command
patterns are fixed strings. 
The
.PN fgrep
command is fast and compact.
.PP
In all cases the file name is shown
if there is more than one input file.
Take care when using
the characters $ * [ ^ | ( ) and \\ in the
.I expression
because they are also meaningful to the Shell.
It is safest to enclose the entire
.I expression
argument in single quotes \' \'.
.PP
The
.PN fgrep
command
searches for lines that contain one of the (new line-separated)
.I strings.
.PP
The
.PN egrep
command
accepts extended regular expressions.
In the following description `character' excludes new line:
.IP
A \e followed by a single character
other than new line matches that character.
.IP
The character ^ matches the beginning of a line.
.IP
The character $ matches the end of a line.
.IP
A 
.B .
(dot) matches any character.
.IP
A single character not otherwise endowed with special
meaning matches that character.
.IP
A string enclosed in brackets [\|] matches
any single character from the string.
Ranges of ASCII character codes may be abbreviated as in `a\-z0\-9'.
A ]
may occur only as the first character of the string.
A literal \- must be placed where it can't
be mistaken as a range indicator.
.IP
A regular expression followed by an * (asterisk) matches a sequence of 0
or more matches of the regular expression.
A regular expression followed by a + (plus)
matches a sequence of 1 or more
matches of the regular expression.
A regular expression followed
by a ? (question mark) matches a sequence of
0 or 1 matches of the regular expression.
.IP
Two regular expressions concatenated match a match of the first followed
by a match of the second.
.IP
Two regular expressions separated by | or new line
match either a match for the first or a match for the second.
.IP
A regular expression enclosed in parentheses
matches a match for the regular expression.
.PP
The order of precedence of operators at the same parenthesis level
is the following:  [\|], then *+?, then concatenation, then | and new line.
.SH Options
.NXR "grep command" "options"
.IP \fB\-b\fR 12
Precedes each output line with its block number.
This is sometimes useful in locating disk block numbers by context.
.IP \fB\-c\fR 
Produces count of matching lines only.
.IP "\fB\-\|e\fI expression\fR" 
Uses next argument as expression that begins with a minus (\-).  
.IP "\fB\-\|f\fI file\fR" 
Takes regular expression
(\fBegrep\fR) or string list (\fBfgrep\fR) 
from 
.I file.
.IP \fB\-i\fR 
Considers upper and lowercase letter identical in making comparisons  
.PN (grep 
and
.PN fgrep
only).
.IP \fB\-l\fR 
Lists files with matching lines only once, 
separated by a new line.
.IP \fB\-n\fR 
Precedes each matching line with its line number.
.IP \fB\-s\fR 
Silent mode and nothing is printed (except error messages).
This is useful for checking the error status (see DIAGNOSTICS).
.IP \fB\-v\fR 
Displays all lines that do not match specified expression.
.IP \fB\-w\fR 
Searches for an expression as for a word
(as if surrounded by `\e<' and `\e>').
For further information, see 
.MS ex 1 ,
.PN grep
only.
.IP \fB\-x\fR 
Prints exact lines matched in their entirety 
.PN (fgrep
only).
.SH Restrictions
.NXR "grep command" "restricted"
Lines are limited to 256 characters; longer lines are truncated.
.SH Diagnostics
.NXR "grep command" "diagnostics"
Exit status is 0 if any matches are found,
1 if none, 2 for syntax errors or inaccessible files.
.SH See Also
ex(1), sed(1), sh(1)
