.TH ic 1int
.SH Name
ic \- compiler for language support database
.SH Syntax
.B ic
[
.B \-D\c
.I name=def
] [
.B \-U\c
.I name
] [
.B \-I\c
.I dir
] [
.B \-v
] [
.B \-o
.I output
] [
.I source
]
.SH Description
.NXR "ic utility"
The command
.PN ic
generates a binary international database from a database language
source file. The command either accepts its input from the file
.I source
or from the standard input, if you do not specify
.I source .
.PP
The name of the output file is the name of the codeset in the source
file or the name you specify using the
.PN \-o
option.
.PP
For information on creating a database language source file, see the
\fIGuide to Developing International Software\fP.
.SH Options
.IP \fB\-D\fR 5
Defines
.I name
to the C preprocessor.  This option has the same effect as including 
the 
.PN #define 
.PN name 
directive at the head of your source file. The
default 
.I name 
definition is 1.
.PP
.IP \fB\-U\fR 5
Removes any initial preprocessor definition of
.I name .
.PP
.IP \fB\-I\fR 5
Causes the
.PN ic 
compiler to search the named directory for files you name in an 
.PN #include
directive.
.PP
.IP \fB\-o\fR 5
Specifies the name you want
.PN ic
to use for the output file.  By default, the compiler uses the name of
the codeset in the source file to name the output file.
.PP
.IP \fB\-v\fR 5
Requests statistics on the number of simple and double letters in the
source file,
the number of tables in the source file, and the size of the output
binary file.
.SH Restrictions
The length of the table name modifier is limited to 44 characters.
.SH Examples
The following command causes the
.PN ic
compiler to compile the
.PN GER_CH.8859.in
source file:
.EX
% \f(CBic \-v GER_CH.8859.in\fP
INTLINFO database GER_CH.8859:
	 257 code table entries (256 simple/1 multi-byte).
	   1 property table(s).
	   1 collation table(s).
	   1 string table(s).
	   3 conversion tables: toascii, tolower, toupper.
5051 bytes total length.
.EE
The 
.PN ic
compiler searches for the 
.PN GER_CH.8859.in
file in the current working directory.
The compiler writes compilation statistics to 
.PN stderr , 
as requested by the
.PN \-v
option.  The compiler creates a binary file, named 
.PN GER_CH.8859 ,
in the current working directory.
.SH Return Values
The 
.PN ic
compiler
returns zero exit status for successful
compilation; it returns nonzero status if it encounters errors that
inhibit generation of a binary file.
.SH Diagnostics
The
.PN ic
compiler issues four types of messages.  The following list describes
each of the four types:
.TP 15
.B warning
The compiler has detected syntax that may be in error, but does not adversely
effect the binary file.  
.TP
.B error nn
The compiler has detected an error severe enough to inhibit the generation
of a correct binary file.
.TP
.B fatal error
The compiler has detected an error that makes it impossible to proceed
with the compilation.
This error most often occurs during compilation of the code table.
.TP
.B fatal bug
This occurs when there are internal errors in
the compiler.  For example, this is generally produced when
an incompatible source file is given as an
input to
.PN ic .
.SH Files
.TP 20
.PN /tmp/icXXXXXX 
Temporary files
.TP 20
.PN /lib/cpp 
C preprocessor
.SH See Also
intro(3int), setlocale (3), environ (5int), lang (5int), nl_langinfo(5int)
.br
\fIGuide to Developing International Software\fP
