.\" SCCSID: @(#)kill.1	8.1	9/11/90
.\" SCCSID: @(#)kill.1	8.1	9/11/90
.TH kill 1
.SH Name
kill \- send a signal to a process
.SH Syntax
.B kill
[\-\fIsig\fR\|] \fIprocessid...\fR
.br
.B kill
.B \-l
.SH Description
.NXR "kill command (general)"
.NXR "process" "terminating"
.NXAM "kill command (general)" "kill system call"
The
.PN kill
command
sends the TERM (terminate, 15) signal to the specified processes.
If a signal name or number preceded by `\-' is given
as first argument, that signal is sent instead of terminate.
For further information, see 
.MS sigvec 2 .
.PP
The terminate signal kills processes that do not catch the signal;
`kill \-9 ...' is a sure kill, as the KILL (9) signal cannot be caught.
By convention, if process number 0 is specified, all members
in the process group (that is, processes resulting from 
the current login) are signaled. 
This works only if you use 
.MS sh 1 
and not if you use 
.MS csh 1 .
.NXR "kill command (general)" "restricted
To kill a process it must either belong to you or
you must be superuser.
.PP
The process number of an asynchronous process
started with `&' is reported by the shell.
Process numbers can also be found by using
.MS csh 1 .
It allows job specifiers ``%...''
so process ID's are not as often used as
.PN kill
arguments.  See 
.MS csh 1  
for details.
.SH Options
.IP \fB\-l\fR 5
Lists signal names.   
The signal names are listed by
`kill \-l', and are as given in /usr/include/signal.h,
stripped of the common SIG prefix.
.SH See Also
csh(1), ps(1), kill(2), sigvec(2)
