.\" SCCSID: @(#)last.1	8.1	9/11/90
.TH last 1
.SH Name
last \- indicate last logins of users and teletypes
.SH Syntax
.B last
[\-\fIN\fR] [\|\fIname...\fR\|] [\|\fItty...\fR\|]
.SH Description
.NXR "last command"
.NXA "last command" "lastcomm command"
.NXR "login" "printing last"
The
.PN last
command
looks back in the
.PN wtmp
file, which records all logins and logouts, for information about
a user, a teletype or any group of users and teletypes.
Arguments specify names of users or teletypes of interest.
Names of teletypes can be given fully or abbreviated.
For example `last 0' is the same as `last tty0'.
.PP
If multiple arguments are given, the information that applies
to any of the arguments is printed.  For example, `last root console'
lists all of "root's" sessions as well as all sessions
on the console terminal.
.PP  
The
.PN last
command
prints the sessions of the specified users and teletypes,
most recent first, indicating the times at which the session
began, the duration of the session, and the teletype on which the
session took place.
If the session is ongoing or was cut short by a reboot,
.PN last
indicates that this is so.
.PP
The pseudo-user
.I reboot
logs in at reboots of the system.  Therefore, the following
example
gives an indication of mean time between reboot:
.EX
last reboot
.EE
.PP
The
.PN last
command
with no arguments prints a record of all logins and logouts, in
reverse order.
.PP
If
.PN last
is interrupted, it indicates how far the search has progressed
in
.PN wtmp .
If interrupted with a quit signal
(generated by a <CTRL/E>)
.PN last
indicates how far the search has progressed so far, and the
search continues.
.SH Options
.IP \-\fIN\fR 5
Limits the number of output lines to the specified number.
.SH Files
.TP 20
/usr/adm/wtmp		
login data base
.TP
/usr/adm/shutdownlog	
records that shutdowns occurred and why
.SH See\ Also
wtmp(5), ac(8), lastcomm(1)
