.TH lp 1
.SH Name
lp \- send requests to an LP line printer
.SH Syntax
.NXR "lp command"
.B lp
[\fB\-c\fR] [\fB\-d \fIdest\fR\|]
[\fB\-n \fInumber\fR\|]
[\-] [\fIfiles\fR]
.SH Description
The
.PN lp
command arranges for the named files and associated information
(collectively called a \fIrequest\fR) to be
printed by a line printer.
If no file names are mentioned, the standard input is assumed.
When a file name is designated by a minus sign
.B (\-)
it stands for the standard input and may be supplied
on the command line in conjunction with named
.I files.
The order
in which
.I files
appear
is the same order
in which they are printed.
.PP
This command exists for X/OPEN compatibility.
.SH Options
The following options to
.PN lp
may appear in any order and may be intermixed with file names:
.IP \fB\-c\fR 12
Makes copies of the
.I files
to be printed immediately when
.PN lp
is invoked.
Normally,
.I files
are not copied, but are linked whenever possible.
If the
.B \-c
option is not given, then the user should be careful not to remove
any of the
.I files
before the request has been printed in its entirety.
It should also be noted that without the
.B \-c
option, any changes made to the named
.I files
after the request is made but before it is printed
are reflected in the printed output.
.IP "\fB\-d \fIdest\fR" 
Chooses
.I dest
as the printer that is to do the printing.
If
.I dest
is a printer, then the request
is printed on that specific printer.
By default,
.I dest
is taken from the environment variable PRINTER
if it is set.
Otherwise, a default destination, lp, is used.
.IP "\fB\-n \fInumber\fR" 
Prints
.I number
copies (default of 1) of the output.
.SH Files
.nf
.ta \w'/usr/spool/*/cf*       'u
/etc/passwd	personal identification
/etc/printcap	printer capabilities data base
/usr/lib/lpd*	line printer daemons
/usr/spool/*	directories used for spooling
/usr/spool/*/cf*	daemon control files
/usr/spool/*/df*	data files specified in cf files
/usr/spool/*/tf*	temporary copies of cf files
.fi
.SH See Also
lpq(1), lpr(1), lprm(1), pr(1), symlink(2), printcap(2), lpc(8), lpd(8)
