.\" V4.0 source updated for V4.Titanium
.\"
.\" Updated on 26.10.90 by Karen Campbell, OSCR-Europe
.\"
.\" Submitted for FT 9-Nov-90.
.\"
.\" Print this document on a PostScript printer using the command line
.\"     tbl filename | ditroff \-Tps \-man | devps | lpr
.\"
.TH lpr 1
.SH Name
lpr \- print files
.SH Syntax
.B lpr
[
.I options
]
[
.I file...
]
.SH Description
.NXR "lpr command"
.NXA "lpr command" "lpq command"
.NXA "lpr command" "print command (general)"
.NXA "lpr command" "lprm command"
.NXR "file" "printing"
The
.PN lpr
command puts files in the spooling area used by
.PN lpd .
The files are printed by
.PN lpd
when the printer is available.
If no file names are specified, the standard input is used.
.PP
If options are specified which would cause a conflicting
action,
the last option specified is the one used.
For example, in the command:
.EX
lpr \-h \-Jjob
.EE
the \fB\-J\fR option overrides the \fB\-h\fR option.
.SH Options
.IP \fB\-C\fIclass\fR .3i
Print the argument \fIclass\fR as the job classification on the banner
page.
If this option is not used, the name of the node from where the
.PN lpr
command was issued is printed.
.IP \fB\-h\fR .3i
Do not print the banner page.
.IP \fB\-i\fIn\fR .3i
Indent the printed output by \fIn\fR spaces.
An argument must be supplied with this option.
You should note that this is not compatible to previous versions of
.PN lpr .
.IP \fB\-J\fIjob\fR .3i
Print the argument \fIjob\fR, as the job name on the banner page.
If this option is not used, the job name is the name of the first file
specified in the
.PN lpr
command.
If no file name is specified, the job name ``stdin'' is used.
.IP \fB\-m\fR .3i
Send a mail note to yourself when the job has been completed.
.IP \fB\-p\fR .3i
Print numbered pages.
For PrintServers this option is effective for ANSI and ASCII data types 
only; it has no effect for any others.
.IP \fB\-P\fIprinter\fR .3i
Send the output to the spool queue for the \fIprinter\fR specified.
If this option is not used, the output is sent to the spool queue defined
by the PRINTER environment variable.
If a queue is not defined by the PRINTER environment variable, the output
is sent to the default printer.
.IP \fB\-s\fR
Use the
.PN symlink
system call to link data files, rather than trying to copy them.
This can be used if the file size exceeds the spool directory limit.
Refer to the \fBmx\fR capability in
.MS printcap 5 .
Note that the files should not be modified or removed until they have
been printed.
.IP \fB\-T\fItitle\fR .3i
Print the argument \fItitle\fR at the head of each page.
If a title is not specified, the name of the file 
is used.
If no file name is specified, then the title part of the header is left
blank.
The \fB\-T\fR option is only meaningful with the \fB\-p\fR option.
.IP \fB\-w\fIn\fR .3i
Print the job using a page width of \fIn\fR characters.
If this option is not used, the page width is taken from the
.PN printcap
file.
If there is no entry in the
.PN printcap
file, the page width used is 132 characters.
.IP \fB\-z\fIn\fR .3i
Print the job using a page length of \fIn\fR lines.
If this option is not used, the page length  is taken from the
.PN printcap
file.
If there is no entry in the
.PN printcap
file, the page length used is 66 lines.
.IP \fB\-1\fIfont\fR
.IP \fB\-2\fIfont\fR
.IP \fB\-3\fIfont\fR
.IP \fB\-4\fIfont\fR .3i
Use the font file specified by \fIfont\fR in font position \fB1\fR, \fB2\fR, \fB3\fR or
\fB4\fR.
These options can only be used with troff, ditroff and TeX files (the
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-t\fR, and \fB\-d\fR options respectively).
.IP \fB\-#\fIn\fR .3i
Print \fIn\fR copies of the specified file(s).
.PP
.PP
.SS "Options for Use with PrintServers"
The following options are for use with the Digital family of PrintServers.
For more information, see
.MS lpd 8 .
Each option requires one argument.
The arguments can be abbreviated as long as the abbreviations are unique
for each option.
.IP \fB\-D\fIdatatype\fR .3i
Define the data type to the print daemon,
.PN lpd .
The 
.PN lprsetup
provides ASCII as the default data type in the
.PN printcap 
file.
If you do not use the \fB\-D\fR option, the data type is taken from the
.PN printcap
file.
If no entry for the data type is found here, the
.PN lpd 
default data type, PostScript is used and the print job is sent to the 
printer without translation.
The following are valid arguments for the \fB\-D\fR option.
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
lw(.1i) lw(.6i) lw(4i).
 @\fIansi\fR@ANSI data 
 @\fIascii\fR@ASCII data
 @\fIpostscript\fR@PostScript data
 @\fIregis\fR@REGIS data
 @\fItek4014\fR@Tektronix 4014
 @\fIxyz\fR@T{
You can specify other data types, but you must write an
appropriate translator, refer to
.MS xlator_call 8 .
T}
.TE
.PP
If the \fIdatatype\fR argument is misspelled, or an unsupported data type
is specified, the job fails and the message "translator not found" is 
reported to the error log.
In addition, a single sheet is printed to report the error.
.IP \fB\-F\fIpagesize\fR .3i
Select the size of the pages to be printed.
The page size is the text intended to be printed on a single sheet.
If the \fB\-F\fR option is not used, the page size used is the same as the
sheet size; refer to option \fB\-S\fR.
If the sheet size is not specified, the value is taken from the
.PN printcap
file.
If there is no entry in the
.PN printcap
file, the page size is LETTER (8.5 x 11 inches).
The \fB\-F\fR option is ignored if the data type is PostScript. 
The following are valid arguments for the \fB\-F\fR option.
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
lw(.1i) lw(1.6i) lw(3i).
 @\fIletter \fRor\fI a\fR@8.5 x 11 inches, 216 x 279 mm
 @\fIledger \fRor\fI b\fR@11 x 17 inches, 279 x 432 mm
 @\fIlegal\fR@8.5 x 14 inches, 216 x 356 mm
 @\fIexecutive\fR@7.5 x 10.5 inches, 191 x 254 mm
 @\fIa5\fR@5.8 x 8.3 inches, 148 x 210 mm
 @\fIa4\fR@8.3 x 11.7 inches, 210 x 297 mm
 @\fIa3\fR@11.7 x 16.5 inches, 297 x 420 mm
 @\fIb5\fR@7.2 x 10.1 inches, 176 x 250 mm
 @\fIb4\fR@10.1 x 14.3 inches, 250 x 353 mm
.TE
.PP
.IP \fB\-I\fItray\fR .3i
Select the input paper tray that supplies paper for the print job.
The tray name is given by the argument as follows:
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
lw(.1i) lw(1.6i) lw(3i).
 @\fItop\fR@T{
The upper 250-sheet input tray.
T}
 @\fImiddle\fR@T{
The middle 250-sheet input tray.
T}
 @\fIbottom \fRor\fI lcit\fR@T{
The large capacity input tray.
T}
.TE
.PP
.IP \& .3i
If the \fB\-I\fR option is not used, the \fB\-S\fR option selects the
input tray.
If the \fB\-I\fR option and the \fB\-S\fR option are both specified, the
input tray must contain the required paper size.
If the \fB\-I\fR option is not specified, the value for the output paper
tray is taken from the
.PN printcap
file.
If no entry is present there, the default paper tray for the printer is
used.
.IP \fB\-K\fIsides\fR .3i
Print the pages of the job on sheets in the way specified by
\fIsides\fR.
The valid arguments are:
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
lw(.1i) lw(2.2i) lw(2.4i).
 @\fI1 \fRor\fI one_sided_simplex\fR@T{
Print on one side of the sheet only.
T}
 @\fI2 \fRor\fI two_sided_duplex\fR@T{
Print on both sides of the sheet; the second side is reached by
flipping the sheet about its left edge, as in the binding of a book.
T}
 @\fItumble \fRor\fI two_sided_tumble\fR@T{
Print on both sides of the sheet, but print the opposite way up on each
side, so the second side can be read by flipping the sheet along its
top axis.
T}
 @\fIone_sided_duplex\fR@T{
Print on one side of the paper only, but retain the page layout intended
for \fItwo_sided_duplex\fR printing. 
The layout refers to such things as where the margins are, and where the
page numbers are.
T}
 @\fIone_sided_tumble\fR@T{
Print on one side of the paper only, but retain the page layout intended
for tumble printing.
T}
 @\fItwo_sided_simplex\fR@T{
Print on two sides of the paper, but retain the page layout
intended for \fIone_sided_simplex\fR.
T}
.TE
.PP
.IP \fB\-L\fIfilename\fR .3i
Use the commands in the layup definition file, specified by \fIfilename\fR,
to alter the appearance of the printed output.
For example, layup files may be found in the
.PN /usr/examples/print/layup
directory.
If \fIfilename\fR does not begin with /, the current directory is
searched, followed by
.PN /usr/lib/lpdfilters .
This is the ideal location for your system administrator to store site 
specific layup files.
Refer to the documentation for your printer for commands available.
.IP \fB\-M\fImessage\fR .3i
Use the messages generated by the print job in the way specified by
\fImessage\fR.
If the \fB\-M\fR option is not used, messages are not recorded, unless
indicated by an entry in the
.PN printcap
file.
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
lw(.1i) lw(1.6i) lw(3i).
 @\fIkeep\fR@T{
Record the messages in the message file and mail the file to you.
T}
 @\fIignore\fR@T{
Do not record messages.
T}
.TE
.PP
.IP \fB\-N\fIn\fR .3i
Print \fIn\fR pages on a single sheet.
The number must be in the range 0 to 100.
If you specify \f(CWlpr \-N0\fR the
.PN /etc/printcap
entry is overridden and the default layup file is not used.
If you specify \f(CWlpr \-N1\fR the pages are printed ``1-up'' but with a
border; if the \fB\-N\fR option is not used, one page is printed on 
one sheet.
.IP \fB\-o\fItray\fR .3i
Select the output tray where the printed job is be deposited.
The tray name is given by the argument as follows:
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
lw(.1i) lw(.6i) lw(4i).
 @\fItop\fR@T{
Top tray, with face-down stacking.
T}
 @\fIside\fR@T{
Side tray, with face-down stacking.
T}
 @\fIface-up\fR@T{
Side tray, with face-up stacking.
T}
 @\fIupper\fR@T{
Upper tray if there are two trays on top of the printer.
T}
 @\fIlower\fR@T{
Lower tray if there are two trays on top of the printer.
T}
 @\fIlcos\fR@T{
Large capacity output stacker
T}
.TE
.PP
.IP \& .3i
If the \fB\-o\fR option is not specified, the value for the input paper
tray is taken from the
.PN printcap
file, and if no entry is present there, from the printer.
.IP \fB\-O\fIorientation\fR .3i
Print the page in the way specified by \fIorientation\fR.
The orientation is given by the argument as follows:
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
lw(.1i) lw(.6i) lw(4i).
 @\fIportrait\fR@T{
The printed output is parallel to the short side of the page.
T}
 @\fIlandscape\fR@T{
The printed output is parallel to the long side of the page.
T}
.TE
.PP
.IP \& .3i
If the \fB\-O\fR option is not specified, the value orientation
is taken from the
.PN printcap
file, and if no entry is present there, it defaults to \fIportrait\fR. 
.IP
For ASCII data type the format is controlled by width and length
values supplied to the filter.
For more information, see
.MS ln03rof 8 .
If the width is greater than 80 columns \fIlandscape\fR mode is selected.
If you specify the
.PN lpr 
.PN \-O
option, or a default has been set for the
.PN :Or=orientation:
parameter in the
.PN /etc/printcap
file, fixed values of width and length are used.
These are as follows:
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
lw(.1i) lw(.6i) lw(4i).
 @\fIportrait\fR@80 columns and 66 lines
 @\fIorientation\fR@132 columns and 66 lines
.TE 
.IP \& .3i
To set \fIportrait\fR as the default for ASCII data type, your system
administrator should add
.PN :Or=portrait:
to the 
.PN /etc/printcap
entry.  Without it, ASCII data type uses the 
.PN lpd
defaults of 132 columns and 66 lines which print in landscape mode.
.PP
You can use 
.PN \-O
.PN landscape
or
.PN \-O
.PN portrait
to select the fixed values already described.
But if you specify width and or length using the
.PN lpr 
.PN \-w
and the
.PN lpr 
.PN \-z
options you can override the default set in the
.PN /etc/printcap
file.
.IP \fB\-S\fIpagesize\fR .3i
Select the physical size of the sheets to be printed.
If the \fB\-S\fR option is not used the sheet size used is the same as the
page size; refer to option \fB\-F\fR.
If the page size is not specified, the value is taken from the
.PN printcap
file.
If there is no entry in the
.PN printcap
file, the sheet size is LETTER (8.5 x 11 inches).
The valid arguments for the \fB\-S\fR option are the same as
for the \fB\-F\fR option.
.IP \fB\-X\fIn\fR .3i
Print each page \fIn\fR times.
The number must be in the range 1 to 100.
The output is uncollated; for a collated output use the \fB\-#\fR option.
If the \fB\-X\fR option is not used, each page is printed once.
.IP \fB\-Z\fIlowlim,uplim\fR .3i
Print the pages of the job between \fIlowlim\fR and \fIuplim\fR.
If \fIlowlim\fR is not specified, the first page printed is the first page
of the job.
If \fIuplim\fR is not specified, the last page printed is the last page
of the job.
The maximum value which can be specified for \fIuplim\fR is 10000.
Banner pages are not included in the count.
Note that these limits apply to the entire print job, not to individual
files within a multi-file job.
.PP
The following options are used to notify the spooling daemon for the
printer that the files are not standard text files.
Any of these options override the \fB\-D\fR option regardless of the
order in which they appear.
The
.PN lpd
print daemon uses the appropriate filters to ensure the files are printed
correctly.
.IP \fB\-g\fR .3i
Assume the files contain standard plot data produced by the
.PN plot
routines.
.IP \fB\-l\fR .3i
Print the files using a filter which prints the control characters and
suppresses the page breaks.
.IP \fB\-t\fR .3i
Assume the files contain data produced by troff.
.IP \fB\-x\fR .3i
Assume the files do not require filtering before printing.
.PP
The following options also notify the spooling daemon for the printer
that the files are not standard text files.
The
.PN lpd
filters for the following options are not supplied as part of the
standard ULTRIX operating system.
.IP \fB\-c\fR .3i
Assume the files contain data produced by cifplot.
.IP \fB\-d\fR .3i
Assume the files contain data produced by TeX (DVI output 
from Stanford).
.IP \fB\-f\fR .3i
Interpret the first character of each line as a standard FORTRAN
carriage control character.
.IP \fB\-n\fR .3i
Assume the files contain data produced by device independent troff
(ditroff).
.IP \fB\-v\fR .3i
Assume the files contain a raster image for devices like Versatec.
.SH Restrictions
Fonts for troff and TeX reside on the host with the printer.
It is not possible to use local font libraries.
.SH Diagnostics
Files with more than \fIx\fR bytes are truncated to \fIx\fR bytes.
The default value for \fIx\fR is 1025024 bytes, but this can be changed 
by using the \fBmx\fR capability in the
.PN /etc/printcap
file.
The 
.PN lpr
command
does not print files which appear to be in
.PN a.out
or
.PN ar
format.
If a user other than root prints a file and spooling is disabled,
.PN lpr
prints a disabled message and does not put jobs in the queue.
If a connection to
.PN lpd
on the local machine cannot be made,
.PN lpr
informs you that the daemon cannot be started.
.SH Files
.TP 25
.PN /etc/passwd
Personal identification
.TP
.PN /etc/printcap
Printer capabilities data base
.TP
.PN /usr/lib/lpd
Line printer daemon
.TP
.PN /usr/spool/*
Directories used for spooling
.TP
.PN /usr/spool/*/cf*
Daemon control files
.TP
.PN /usr/spool/*/df*
Data files specified in ``cf'' files
.TP
.PN /usr/spool/*/tf*
Temporary copies of ``cf'' files
.SH See Also
lpq(1), lprm(1), pr(1), symlink(2), printcap(5), lpc(8), lpd(8)
