.\" SCCSID: @(#)lprm.1	8.1	9/11/90
.TH lprm 1
.SH Name
lprm \- remove jobs from line printer queue
.SH Syntax
.B lprm
[\fB\-P\fIprinter\fR\|] [\fB\-\fR] [\fIjob #...\fR] [\fIuser...\fR]
.SH Description
.NXR "lprm command"
.NXR "print queue" "removing jobs"
The
.PN lprm
command
removes a job, or jobs, from a printer's spool queue.
Since the spooling directory is protected from users, using
.PN lprm
is normally the only method by which a user may remove a job.
.PP
The
.PN lprm
command
without any arguments deletes the currently active job if it is
owned by the user who invoked
.PN lprm .
.PP
If the
.B \-
flag is specified, 
.PN lprm
removes all jobs which a user
owns.  If the super-user employs this flag, the spool queue is
emptied entirely. The owner is determined by the user's login name
and host name on the machine where the
.PN lpr
command was invoked.
.PP
Specifying a user's name, or list of user names, causes
.PN lprm
to attempt to remove any jobs queued belonging to that user
(or users).  This form of invoking
.PN lprm
is useful only to the super-user.
.PP
A user may dequeue an individual job by specifying its job number.
This number may be obtained from the 
.MS lpq 1 
program.  For example, 
.EX
% lpq \-l

1st: ken	[job #013ucbarpa]
	(standard input)	100 bytes
% lprm 13
.EE
.PP
The
.PN lprm
command
announces the names of any files it removes and is silent if
there are no jobs in the queue which match the request list.
.PP
The
.PN lprm
command
kills off an active daemon, if necessary, before removing
any spooling files.  If a daemon is killed, a new one is
automatically restarted upon completion of file removals.
.SH Options
.IP \fB\-\fR 20
Removes all jobs owned by you only.
.IP "\fB\-\|P\fI printer\fR" 20
Removes jobs from specified printer.  It may be used to specify the queue associated with a specific
printer (otherwise the default printer, or the value of the PRINTER
variable in the environment is used).
.PP
.SH Restrictions
.NXR "lprm command" "restricted"
Since there are race conditions possible in the update of the lock file,
the currently active job may be incorrectly identified.
.SH Diagnostics
.NXR "lprm command" "diagnostics"
``Permission denied" if the user tries to remove files other than his
own.
.SH Files
.nf
.ta \w'/usr/spool/*/lock   'u
/etc/printcap	printer characteristics file
/usr/spool/*	spooling directories
/usr/spool/*/lock	lock file used to obtain the pid of the current
	daemon and the job number of the currently active job
.fi
.SH See Also
lpq(1), lpr(1), lpd(8)
