.\" Created on 30.10.89 by Adrian Pattison, OSCR-Europe
.\"
.\" Updated on 13.1.89 by Adrian Pattison, OSCR-Europe
.\"
.\" Print this document on a PostScript printer using the command line
.\"	tbl filename | ditroff \-Tps \-man | devps | lpr
.\"
.TH lpstat 1
.SH Name
lpstat \- printer status information
.SH Syntax
.B lpstat
[
.I options
]
.SH Description
The
.PN lpstat
utility prints the status of the system printers.
.NXR "lpstat command"
.NXR "printer" "status information"
.PP
Without any options,
.PN lpstat
prints the status of print requests made to the default printer.
.PP
This command exists for X/OPEN compatibility.
.SH Options
Some of the options can be followed by a list of arguments.
The arguments must be specified as follows:
.EX
lpstat \-uuser1,user2,user3
.EE
List items can be separated by spaces, but the list must be enclosed
in quotes.
If you do not include any arguments, all the information relevant
to the option is printed.
.PP
The valid options for
.PN lpstat
are:
.PP
.B
\-a
.R
[
.I
printer1, printer2, ...
.R
]
.IP "" .3i
Print whether or not printers are accepting print requests.
.IP \fB\-d\fR .3i
Print the name of the default system printer.
.PP
.B
\-o
.R
[
.I
printer1, printer2, ...
.R
]
.IP "" .3i
Print the status of print requests.
.PP
.B
\-p
.R
[
.I
printer1, printer2, ...
.R
]
.IP "" .3i
Print the status of printers.
.IP \fB\-r\fR .3i
Print the status of the line printer daemon,
.PN lpd .
.IP \fB\-s\fR .3i
Print a status summary, including the status of the line printer daemon
.PN lpd ,
and the default system printer.
.IP \fB\-t\fR .3i
Print all status information.
.PP
.B
\-u
.R
[
.I
user1, user2, ...
.R
]
.IP "" .3i
Print the status of users' print requests.
.SH See Also
lp(1), lpq(1), lpr(1), lpc(8)
