.\" SCCSID: @(#)ltf.1	2.3	7/29/87
.TH ltf 1 
.SH Name
ltf \- labeled tape facility
.SH Syntax
.B ltf
\fIoption\fR\|[\|\fIkeys\fR\|] \fIfile\fR...
.SH Description
.NXR "ltf command"
.NXR "magnetic tape" "labeling"
.NXAM "ltf command" "ltf file"
The
.PN ltf
command reads and writes single-volume Versions 3 and 4 ANSI-compatible
tape volumes.
For a description of the label conventions, see 
.MS ltf 5 .
The
.I file
argument specifies each file or directory name that is to
be processed.  If a directory name is specified, the complete
directory tree is processed.
.SH Options
.NXR "ltf command" "options"
The actions of 
.PN ltf
are controlled by one of the following option characters
that must appear as the first command-line 
argument:
.B \-c, \-H, \-t,
and
.B \-x.  
.IP \fB\-c\fR 0.3i
.R
Creates a new volume assigning an interchange file name to the files on the
volume.  That is,
.PN ltf
initializes the volume and writes each named file onto the output file.
Then
.PN ltf
assigns an \*(lqinterchange\*(rq file name to the files being
created on the volume.  This \*(lqinterchange\*(rq file name is 
a name that can be recognized by a non-ULTRIX system. 
(Permissible ULTRIX file names are not allowed in all forms of ANSI 
volumes).  This file name is 17 characters in length and includes only 
capital letters and the \*(lqa\*(rq characters, see 
.MS ltf 5 .  
It is formed by converting all lower case letters to upper case, 
converting non-\*(lqa\*(rq characters
to upper case Z, and truncating the 
resultant string to 17 characters.  
If ANSI Version 4 volumes are being used, 
the original ULTRIX file name is preserved in HDR3 through HDR9 and
EOF3 through EOF9.  For further information, see 
.MS ltf 5 .
.IP \fB\-H\fR 0.3i
Displays help messages for all options and keys.
.IP \fB\-t\fR 0.3i
Lists each named file on the specified volume.
If no file argument is given, information about all files on the volume
is provided.  If 
.B \-t
is used without v or V (verbose keys), the
interchange file names are also included in the list.
.IP \fB\-x\fR 0.3i
Extracts each named file from the volume to the user's current directory.
If no file argument is given, the 
entire content of the volume is extracted.
If the \fBp\fP key is not specified when extracting files from a
volume written by an ULTRIX system, the files are restored to the 
current user and group IDs and to the mode set by the 
.MS umask 2 
system call.  
.SH Keys
The following optional
.I keys
can be specified to enable or disable
.PN ltf
actions as specified:
.NXR "ltf command" "keys"
.IP \fBa\fR 0.3i
Outputs an ANSI-compatible Version 3 format volume.  This key can be
used with the
.B \-c
option only.  The default version is 4.  For further information,
see 
.MS ltf 5 .
.IP \fBh\fR 0.3i
Write to a tape volume the file that a symbolic link points to instead 
of creating the symbolic link on a volume.  The file written to the tape
now has the same name as the symbolic link.  This key can be used with 
the 
.B \-c
option only.  When extracting,
if a symbolic link exists in the current directory that has
the same name as a file on the tape volume, the link is followed and 
the file that the symbolic link currently points to is overwritten with
the extracted file.  To avoid overwriting files, use the \fBw\fP key.
.IP \fBo\fR 0.3i
Omits directory blocks from the output volume.  When creating a volume, 
the directory files are omitted, and when listing or extracting, the V 
key is disabled.
.IP \fBO\fR 0.3i
Omits usage of optional headers HDR3 through HDR9 and EOF3 through EOF9.  
For further information, see 
.MS ltf 5 .  
If a file is created 
on an ULTRIX system without the use of the O key, these file headers 
contain the complete ULTRIX disk
file name.  Some non-ULTRIX systems are not able to process volumes 
containing these header labels.
Thus, it is helpful to use this qualifier to avoid unnecessary error
messages when planning to use non-ULTRIX systems. 
.IP \fBp\fR 0.3i
Restores files to original mode, user ID and group ID that is written on the tape
volume.  This key can be used with the 
.B \-x 
option on ULTRIX files and by the superuser only.
.IP \fBv\fR 0.3i
Displays long form information about volume and files.
Normally, 
.PN ltf
operates with little terminal output.
.sp
When used in conjunction with the 
.B \-t
option, 
.B v
gives more
information about the volume entries than when used in conjunction
with the
.B \-c 
and
.B \-x
options. The following line is typical output from 
.B \-tv 
functions.
.EX 0
ltf:  Volume ID is:  ULTRIX   Volume is:  ANSI Version #4
ltf:  Owner  ID is:  OwnerID
ltf:  Implementation ID is:   SystemID
ltf:  Volume  created   on:   System               

t(1,1) rw-r--r-- 103/3 owner Feb 2 12:34 2530 bytes <cc >D file1
t(2,1) rw-r--r-- 103/3 owner Jun 29 09:34 999 bytes <com>D file2
t(3,1) rwxrwxrwx 293/10 name Jan 24 10:20 1234 bytes <bin>F name
t(4,1) --xrwx--- 199/04 theowner Jan 24 10:21 12345 bytes <asc>D 
                long file name
.EE
The first field contains the file sequence number and the file
section number of the file.  If an ULTRIX system created the
labeled volume, the second and third fields contain the mode,
and owner/group 
ID of the file.  Otherwise, these two fields are filled with dashes.
The fourth field contains the file owner name.  
The fifth field contains latest modification time.  The year
is included if the modification time is older than Jan 1 of
the current year.  The sixth field contains the number 
of bytes used on the volume for the file.
If the volume is non-ULTRIX, this field contains the number of blocks
with the block size in parenthesis.
The seventh field contains the ANSI file type (angle brackets)
and the file record format (one character suffix).
The file record formats are: F (fixed length), D (variable length),
or S (spanned/segmented records).
The eighth (last) field contains the name of the file.  If the 
file name does not fit within the 12 spaces left in the line, the name 
appears on the next line preceded by a carriage return.  
A long file name will be continued over one or more lines thus it is 
recommended to keep auto wrap on in the terminal setup.  
Also if a file
on a volume is either a symbolic or hard link, information about 
the linked file is displayed on the next line, preceded by a carriage 
return.
.IP \fBV\fR 0.3i
Displays verbose information about directories.
.IP \fBw\fR 0.3i
Warns the user 
if file name is in danger of being truncated when using 
.B \-c 
or if it could be overwritten using 
.B \-x.
Normally, 
.PN ltf
operates silently and does not let the user know what is happening.
When 
.B \-cw
is specified, 
.PN ltf 
displays two warning messages if the interchange name and the ULTRIX 
file name are not the same.
When 
.B \-xw 
is specified,
.PN ltf
displays a warning message if a file is about to be 
overwritten.  Another message is displayed asking for approval to 
overwrite the file.  If the user types no or presses return, then the 
option exists to type in a new file name or press return to quit.  If a
new file name is typed, this name is also checked.
Thus,
.PN ltf
does not
continue until a unique file name is typed.
When
.B \-x
is specified,
.PN ltf
does not warn the user
if a directory name already exists.
.IP \fB0..31\fR 0.3i
Selects a unit number for a named tape device.  These unit numbers can
be entered when using the default tape name, /dev/rmt0h. 
.PP
The following optional keys require an additional
argument to be specified on the command line.  If two or more
of these keys are used, their respective arguments
are to appear in the exact order that the keys are specified.
.IP "\fBB\fI size\fR" 0.3i
Set the blocking factor to 
.I size.
This specifies the maximum number of bytes that can be 
written in a block on a volume.
If no value is specified, 
.I size 
defaults to 2048 bytes.
The maximum size is 20480 bytes and the minimum size is 18 bytes.
The
.B B
key need only be specified with 
.B \-c.
.sp
The
.I size
may be specified 
as n bytes, (where n is assumed to be decimal) or
as nb, (a multiple of 512 bytes using n followed 
by 'b', where 'b' signifies the multiple of 512) or
as nk, (a multiple of 1024 bytes using n followed 
by 'k', where 'k' signifies the multiple of 1024).
.IP "\fBf\fI device\fR" 0.3i
Sets the device file name to
.I device.
The default is /dev/rmt0h.
The use of the
.B f 
key overrides the  
.B 0..31
keys.
.IP "\fBI\fI file\fR" 0.3i
Allows file name to be supplied either interactively or from a specified file.  
Normally, 
.PN ltf
expects the argument file names to be part of the command line.
The 
.B I
key allows the user to 
enter argument file names either interactively or from a specified file.
If 
.I file
is a dash (\-), 
.PN ltf
reads standard input and prompts for all required information.
All of the file names are requested first, followed by a single return
before the arguments are processed.
If 
.I file
is a valid file name, 
.I file
is opened and read to obtain argument file names. 
.IP "\fBL\fI label\fR" 0.3i
Specifies a six-character volume identifier
.I label.
The default
.I label
for ULTRIX systems is 'ULTRIX'.
.IP "\fBP\fI position\fR" 0.3i
Specifies file sequence and section number at which volume will be positioned,
using #,#.  
The first #, represents the file
sequence number, while second #, the file section number.
The file sequence number begins at 1 and is incremented for each file in
the current file set.  Since this implementation of 
.PN ltf
only produces
one file set, the file sequence number for volumes written with this
implementation is the number of the file as it
is written on the volume.  The file section number begins at 1 and is
incremented for each file section on any one volume.  This number is 
necessary when files are written in multi-volume format where the need
may exist
to split a file across volumes; however since this implementation of 
.PN ltf
writes only single volumes, the file section number is always 1 for 
volumes written with this implementation.
If no file arguments
are specified, all files from the position number to the end of the 
tape are listed or extracted.  Otherwise, particular files that exist
between the position number and the end of the tape can be listed or
extracted.  A warning message appears if a file is requested that exists
before the position number specified.
The
.B P
key cannot be used with the
.B \-c
option.
.SH Examples
.NXR "ltf command"
.EX
ltf \-cfB /dev/rmt0h 100 file1 file2 file3
.EE
This example creates a new volume for file1, file2, and file3
using device /dev/rmt0h (\fBf\fP key) and a
blocking factor of 100 (\fBB\fP key).
.SH Restrictions
The
.PN ltf
command does not support floppy diskettes or multi-volume tapes.
.SH Diagnostics
.NXR "ltf command" "diagnostics"
Diagnostics are written to the standard error file.
They come in four forms: fatal errors, warnings, information, and 
prompts.  The 
.PN ltf
command terminates when it detects that a fatal
error has occurred.
.PP
The diagnostics are intended to be self-explanatory.
Their general format is:
.EX
ltf: FATAL > a fatal error message 
ltf: Warning > a warning or advisory message
ltf: Info > an information message
ltf: a prompt asking for input
.EE
.SH See Also
ltf(5)
