.\" SCCSID: @(#)lxref.1	8.1	9/11/90
.TH lxref 1 VAX "" Unsupported
.SH Name
lxref \- lisp cross reference program
.SH Syntax
.B lxref
[
.B \-N
] \fIxref-file\fP ...
[ 
.B \-a 
\fIsource-file\fP ... ]
.SH Description
The
.PN lxref
command reads cross reference file(s) written by the lisp compiler 
.PN liszt
and prints a cross reference listing on the standard output.
.PN liszt
will create a cross reference file during compilation when it is 
given the
.B \-x
switch.
Cross reference files usually end in `.x' and consequently
.PN lxref
will append a `.x' to the file names given if necessary.
The first option to 
.PN lxref
is a decimal integer, N, which sets the 
.I ignorelevel.
If a function is called more than 
.I ignorelevel 
times, the cross reference listing will just print the number of calls 
instead of listing each one of them.
The default for
.I ignorelevel 
is 50.
.PP
The 
.B \-a
option causes 
.PN lxref
to put limited cross reference information in the sources named.
.PN lxref
will scan the source and when it comes across a definition of a function
(that is a line beginning with `(def'
it will precede that line with a list of the functions which call this 
function, written as a comment preceded by 
.B "`;.. '".
All existing lines beginning with
.B "`;.. '"
will be removed from the file.
If the source file contains a line beginning
.B "`;.-'"
then this will disable this annotation process from this point on until a 
.B "`;.+'"
is seen (however, lines beginning with 
.B "`;.. '"
will continue to be deleted).
After the annotation is done, the original file named
`foo.l'
is renamed to
`#.foo.l'
and the new file with annotation is named 
`foo.l'
.SH See Also
lisp(1),
liszt(1)
