.TH mhmail 1mh
.SH Name
mhmail \- send or read mail
.SH Syntax
.B mhmail
[
.I "addrs ..."
] [
.I options
]
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" ***COMMENTED OUT
.\" .SH Arguments
.\" .IP \fIaddrs 10
.\" The address or addresses of the recipients of the message.
.\" Addresses given as arguments appear on the \f(CWTo:\fR
.\" line of the message.
.\" ***END OF COMMENTS
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Description
.NXR "mhmail command"
.NXR "sending mail (mhmail command)"
.NXR "reading mail (mhmail command)"
The
.PN mhmail
program is intended as a replacement 
for the standard mail programs, 
.PN bellmail 
and
.PN ucbmail .
See
.MS binmail 1 
and
.MS mail 1 
for more details of these mail programs.
When invoked without arguments, it simply 
invokes 
.PN inc
to incorporate new messages from the user's maildrop.
When one or more users is specified, a message is read from
the standard input and spooled to a temporary file.
.PN mhmail
then invokes 
.PN post
with the name of the temporary file as
its argument to deliver the message to the specified user.
.PP 
Normally, people will use 
.PN comp 
and 
.PN send 
to send messages.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Options
.IP "\-body \fItext" 10
Specifies the text of the message. 
If it is specified, then the standard input is not read.
.\"
.\"
.IP "\-cc\ \fIaddrs"
Specifies addresses to be placed in the \f(CWcc:\fR
field of the message.
.\"
.\"
.IP "\-from \fIaddr"
Specifies the content of the \f(CWFrom:\fR
header of the draft.
The address given is placed in the \f(CWFrom:\fR
field of the message.
The \f(CWSender:\fR
field is filled in correctly by 
.PN post .
.\"
.\"
.IP \-help
Prints a list of the valid options for this command.
.\"
.\"
.\" 
.\" ***COMMENTED OUT
.ig
.IP \-mts\ \fImtsname
Specifies whether you want to send mail to
X.400 users or non-X.400 users.
Two options are valid:
.B \-mts\ x400 
to send mail to X.400 users;
.B \-mts\ smtp
to send mail to non-X.400 users.
As with 
.PN post ,
you cannot mix X.400 and non-X.400 addresses in the
same message; you must choose one or the other.
The default is to assume non-X.400 transport.
..
.\" ***END OF COMMENTS
.\"
.\"
.IP "\-mts smtp"
Specifies the mail system over which mail is sent.
The only value allowed is \fBsmtp\fR,
which is the standard ULTRIX mail system.
Additional values are supported only for use with other
mail systems.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.IP \-subject\ \fItext
Provides the text of the \f(CWSubject:\fR field of the message.  
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Restrictions
Messages with a null body part will not be sent by
.PN mhmail .
You must include some body text in all messages to be sent by 
.PN mhmail .
.PP
For this version, the
.B \-mts
option only supports the value \fBsmtp\fR.
Additional values are supported for use only with
other mail systems.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Files
.TP 10
.PN /usr/bin/mh/inc
Program to incorporate a maildrop into a folder.
.TP 10 
.PN /usr/lib/mh/post
Program to deliver a message.
.TP 10
.PN /tmp/mhmail*
Temporary copy of message.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH See Also
inc(1mh), post(8mh)
