.\" SCCSID: @(#)more.1	2.4	7/17/87
.TH more 1
.SH Name
more, page \- display file data at your terminal
.SH Syntax
.B more
[\fB\-cdflsu\fR] [\fB\-\fIn\fR\|] [\fB\+\fIlinenumber\fR\|] [\fB\+/\fIpattern\fR\|]
[\|\fIname...\fR\|]
.PP
.B page
.I "more options"
.SH Description
.NXB "more command" 
.NXB "terminal" "viewing one screenful at a time"
.NXR "page command"
.NXA "cat command" "more command"
The
.PN more
filter allows you to examine a file
one screenful of text at a time on a soft-copy terminal.
It normally pauses after each screenful, printing --More-- at the
bottom of the screen.
If the user then types a carriage return, one more line is displayed.
If the user presses the space bar,
another screenful is displayed.
.SH Options
.NXR "more command" "options"
.IP +\fIlinenumber\fR 12
Start up at \fIlinenumber\fP.
.IP +/\fIpattern\fR 
Start up two lines before the line containing the
regular expression \fIpattern\fP.
The command line options are:
.IP \fB\-c\fR 
Begins each page at the top of the screen and erases each line just before it draws on
it.  This avoids scrolling the screen, making it easier to read while 
.PN more 
is writing.
This option is ignored if the terminal does not have the ability
to clear to the end of a line.
.IP \fB\-d\fR 
Displays extended continuation prompt at end of each display.  
The
.PN more
command
prompts the user with the message "Press
space to continue, \'q\' to quit." at the end of each screenful,
and responds to subsequent illegal user input by
printing "Press \'h\' for instructions." instead of ringing the bell.
This is useful if
.B more
is being used as a filter in some setting,
such as a class,
where many users may be unsophisticated.
.IP \fB\-f\fR 
Counts logical text lines (does not fold long lines).  
This option is recommended if
.PN nroff
output is being piped through
.PN ul ,
since the latter may generate escape sequences.
These escape sequences contain characters which would ordinarily occupy
screen positions, but which do not print when they are sent to the
terminal as part of an escape sequence.
Thus
.PN more
may think that lines are longer than they actually are, and fold
lines erroneously.
.IP \fB\-l\fR 
Ignores line feeds (CTRL/Ls) and normally, pauses at line feeds.    
If this option is not given,
.PN more
pauses after any line that contains a ^L, as if the end of a
screenful had been reached.
Also, if a file begins with a form feed, the screen is cleared
before the file is printed.
.IP \fB\-\fIn\fR 
Specifies number of line 
.PN more
displays.
.IP \fB\-s\fR 
Squeezes multiple blank lines from the output, producing only one blank
line.  Especially helpful when viewing
.PN nroff
output, this option maximizes the useful information present
on the screen.
.IP \fB\-u\fR 
Ignores all underlining in the data.  
If the terminal can
perform underlining or has a stand-out mode,
.PN more
outputs appropriate escape sequences 
to enable underlining or stand-out
mode for underlined information in the source file.  The
.I \-u
option suppresses this processing.
.PP
If the program is invoked as
.B page,
then the screen is cleared before each screenful is printed (but only
if a full screenful is being printed), and
.I k
\- 1 rather
than
.I k
\- 2 lines are printed in each screenful, where
.I k
is the number of lines the terminal can display.
.PP
The
.PN more
command looks in the file /etc/termcap
to determine terminal characteristics,
and to determine the default window size.
On a terminal capable of displaying 24 lines,
the default window size is 22 lines.
.PP
The
.PN more
command looks in the environment variable
.I MORE
to pre-set any flags desired.
For example, if you prefer to view files using
the
.I \-c
mode of operation, the
.PN csh
command
.I "setenv MORE \-c"
or the
.PN sh
command sequence
.I "MORE='-c' ; export MORE"
would cause all invocations of
.PN more ,
including invocations by programs such as
.PN man
and
.PN msgs ,
to use this mode.
Normally, the user places the command sequence which sets up the
.I MORE
environment variable in the .cshrc
or .profile file.
.PP
If
.PN more
is reading from a file, rather than a pipe,
then a percentage is displayed
along with the --More-- prompt.
This gives the fraction of the file (in characters,
not lines) that has been read so far.
.PP
Other sequences which may be typed when
.PN more
pauses, and their effects, are as follows
(\fIi\fP is an optional integer
argument, defaulting to 1) :
.IP \fIi\|\fP<space> 12
Display
.I i
more lines, (or another screenful if no argument is given)
.IP ^D
Display 11 more lines (a ``scroll'').
If
.I i
is given, then the scroll size is set to \fIi\|\fP.
.IP d
Same as ^D (control-D)
.IP \fIi\|\fPz
Same as typing a space except that \fIi\|\fP, if present, becomes the new
window size.
.IP \fIi\|\fPs
Skip \fIi\|\fP lines and print a screenful of lines
.IP \fIi\|\fPf
Skip \fIi\fP screenfuls and print a screenful of lines
.IP "\fIi\|\fPb or \fIi\|\fP^B"
Skip back \fIi\fP screenfuls and print a screenful of lines
.IP "q or Q"
Exit from
.I more.
.IP =
Display the current line number.
.IP v
Start up the editor
.PN vi
at the current line.
.IP "h or ?"
Help command; give a description of all the
.B more
commands.
.IP \fIi\|\fP/expr
Search for the \fIi\|\fP-th occurrence
of the regular expression \fIexpr.\fP
If there are less than \fIi\fP occurrences of \fIexpr\|\fP,
and the input is a file (rather than a pipe),
then the position in the file remains unchanged.
Otherwise, a screenful is displayed, starting two lines before the place
where the expression was found.
The user's erase and kill characters may be used to edit the regular
expression.
Erasing back past the first column cancels the search command.
of the last regular expression entered.
.IP \fIi\|\fPn
Search for the \fIi\|\fP-th occurrence
.IP '
(single quote) Go to the point from which the last search started.
If no search has been performed in the current file, this command
goes back to the beginning of the file.
.IP !command
Invoke a shell with \fIcommand\|\fP. 
The characters `%' and `!' in "command" are replaced with the
current file name and the previous shell command respectively.
If there is no current file name, `%' is not expanded.
The sequences "\\%" and "\\!" are replaced by "%" and "!" respectively.
.IP \fIi\|\fP:n
skip to the \fIi\|\fP-th next file given in the command line
(skips to last file if n doesn't make sense)
.IP \fIi\|\fP:p
Skip to the \fIi\|\fP-th previous file given in the command line.
If this command is given in the middle of printing out a
file, then
.PN more
goes back to the beginning of the file. If \fIi\fP doesn't make sense,
.PN more
skips back to the first file.
If
.PN more
is not reading from a file, the bell is rung and nothing else happens.
.IP :f
Display the current file name and line number.
.IP ":q or :Q"
Exit from 
.PN more
.IP .
(dot) Repeat the previous command.
.PP
The commands take effect immediately, that is, it is not necessary to
type a carriage return.
Up to the time when the command character itself is given,
the user may hit the line kill character to cancel the numerical
argument being formed.
In addition, the user may hit the erase character to redisplay the
--More--(xx%) message.
.PP
At any time when output is being sent to the terminal, the user can
hit the quit key (normally control\-\\).
The
.PN more
command stops sending output, and displays the usual --More--
prompt.
The user may then enter one of the above commands in the normal manner.
Unfortunately, some output is lost when this is done, due to the
fact that any characters waiting in the terminal's output queue
are flushed when the quit signal occurs.
.PP
The terminal is set to
.I noecho
mode by this program so that the output can be continuous.
What you type not show on your terminal,
except for the / and !
commands.
.PP
If the standard output is not a teletype, then
.PN more
acts just like
.PN cat ,
except that a header is printed before each file (if there is
more than one).
.PP
A sample usage of
.PN more
in previewing
.PN nroff
output would be
.EX
nroff \-ms doc.n | more \-s
.EE
.SH Files
.DT
/etc/termcap		Terminal data base
.br
/usr/lib/more.help	Help file
.SH See Also
csh(1), man(1), msgs(1), script(1), sh(1), environ(7)
.NXE "more command" 
.NXE "terminal" "viewing one screenful at a time"
