.TH msh 1mh
.SH Name
msh \- MH shell 
.SH Syntax
.B msh
[
.B \-help
] 
.\" ***These options commented out
.ig
[
.B "\-[no]scan"
] [
.B "\-[no]topcur"
] 
..
.\" ***End of comments
[
.B "\-prompt"
.I string
] [
.I file
]
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Description
.NXR "msh command"
.PP
The command
.PN msh
is an interactive program that
implements a subset of the normal MH commands
operating on a single file in 
.PN packf
format.  
That is, 
.PN msh
is used to read a file that contains a number of messages, 
as opposed to the standard MH style of reading a number of files,
each file being a separate message in a folder.
.PP
The chief advantage of 
.PN msh
is that, unlike the normal MH style, 
it allows a file to have more than one message in it.
In addition, 
.PN msh
can be used on other files,
such as message archives which have been packed using
.PN packf .
.PP
When invoked, 
.PN msh
reads the named file, and enters a command loop.
You can type most of the normal MH commands.
The syntax and semantics of these commands typed to 
.PN msh
are identical to their MH counterparts.  
In cases where the nature of 
.PN msh
would be inconsistent with the way MH works
(for example, specifying a 
.I +folder
with some commands),
.PN msh
will duly inform you.
The commands that 
.PN msh
currently supports are:
.EX
ali      burst    comp    dist     folder
forw     inc      mark    mhmail   msgchk
next     packf    pick    prev     refile
repl     rmm      scan    send     show
sortm    whatnow  whom
.EE
.PP
In addition,
.PN msh
has a 
.PN help
command which gives a brief overview of all the
.PN msh 
options.  
To terminate 
.PN msh ,
either type <CTRL/D>, or use the 
.PN quit
command.
If the file is writable and has been modified,
then using 
.PN quit
will ask you if the file should be updated.
.PP
A redirection facility is supported by
.PN msh .
Commands may be followed by one of the following
standard ULTRIX symbols:
.TP 10
\f(CW|\fR
Open an interprocess channel; connect output to another ULTRIX command.
.TP 10
\f(CW>\fR
Write output to file.
.TP 10
\f(CW>>\fR
Append output to file.
.PP
If 
\fIfile\fR
starts with a tilde (\f(CW~\fR),
then a C-shell-like expansion takes place.  
Note that commands are interpreted by 
.MS sh 1 .
.PP
When parsing commands to the left of any redirection symbol,
.PN msh
will honor the backslash (\f(CW\e\fR)
as the quote next-character symbol,
and double quotes (")
as quote-word delimiters.
All other input tokens are separated by white space
(spaces and tabs).
.PP
You may wish to use an alternative profile 
for the commands that
.PN msh
executes;
see 
.MS mh_profile 5mh
for details of the \f(CW$MH\fR
environment variable.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Options
.IP \-help 10
Prints a list of the valid options for this command.
.\"
.\" ***These options commented out
.ig
.IP "\-scan" 10
.PD 0
.IP "\-noscan" 10
.PD 
***WHAT DOES THIS DO???***
.\"
.IP "\-topcur" 10
.PD 0
.IP "\-notopcur" 10
.PD
***WHAT DOES THIS DO???***
..
.\" ***End of comments
.\"
.IP "\-prompt \fIstring\fB" 10
Sets the prompt for 
.PN msh .
If the string you specify includes white space,
you must enclose it in double quotes (").
If you do not specify this option,
the default prompt is \f(CW(msh)\fR.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.PP
The following defaults are used by
.PN msh:
.IP
.I file
defaults to 
.PN \&./msgbox
.br
.B "\-prompt (msh)"
.\" ***Options commented out
.ig
.br
.B \-noscan
.br
.B \-notopcur
..
.\" ***End of comments
.\"
.\"
.SH Restrictions
The
.PN msh
shell is not the C-shell,
and a lot of the facilities provided by the latter are not
present in the former.
In particular, 
.PN msh
does not support back-quoting, history substitutions, 
variable substitutions, or alias substitutions.
.PP
.PN msh
does not understand back-quoting.
The only effective way to use 
.PN pick
inside 
.PN msh
is to always use
the 
.B "\-seq select"
option.
If you add the following line to your
.PN \&.mh_profile ,
.PN pick
will work equally well from both the shell and
.PN msh :
.EX
pick:\0\-seq\0select\0\-list
.EE
.PP
There is a strict limit of messages per file in 
.PN packf
format which
.PN msh
can handle.
Usually, this limit is 1000 messages.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Profile Components
.TS
tab(+);
l l.
Path:+To determine your Mail directory
Msg-Protect:+To set protections when creating a new file
fileproc:+Program to file messages
showproc:+Program to show messages
.TE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Files
.TP 10
.PN $HOME/.mh_profile
The user profile.
.TP 10
.PN /usr/lib/mh/mtstailor
The system customization file.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH See Also
csh(1), packf(1mh), sh(1), mh_profile(5mh)
