.TH next 1mh
.SH Name
next \- show the next message
.SH Syntax
.B next 
[
.I +foldername
] [
.B \-[no]header
] [
.B \-help
] [
.B \-showproc 
.I program 
] [
.B \-noshowproc
] [
.I "options to"
.PN showproc
]
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Description
.NXR "next command"
.NXR "message" "show next message"
The command
.PN next
displays the next message in the current folder.
The next message is the one after the current message 
in the folder.  
The message that is shown becomes the current message.
.PP
If you name a folder using the
.I +folder
argument,
.PN next
displays the next message in the folder you specify.
That folder becomes the current folder.  
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Options
.IP "\-header" 10
.PD 0
.IP "\-noheader" 10
.PD
Displays a one-line header before the message.
The header consists of the name of the folder 
and the message number.
This is the default behavior. 
It can be suppressed with the 
.B \-noheader
option.
.\"
.IP "\-help" 10
Prints a list of the valid options to this command.
.\"
.IP "\-showproc \fIprogram\fR [ \fIoptions\fR ]\fB" 10
.PD 0
.IP "\-noshowproc" 10
.PD
Specifies an alternative program to list messages.
The default is to use the program defined by the 
\f(CWshowproc:\fR entry in the 
.PN \&.mh_profile 
file.
As with 
.PN show ,
you can give options to the
.PN showproc
program at the command line. 
These are passed directly to 
.PN showproc
by 
.PN next .
.\"
.PP
The defaults for this command are:
.IP
.I +folder
defaults to the current folder
.br
.B \-header
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Restrictions
The
.PN next
command is really a link to the 
.PN show
program.
As a result,
if you make a link to 
.PN next
and that link is not called 
.PN next ,
your link will act like 
.PN show
instead.
To avoid this,
add a profile-entry for the link to your
.PN \&.mh_profile
and add the argument 
.PN next
to the entry.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Profile Components
.TS
tab(+);
l l.
Path:+To determine the user's Mail directory
showproc:+Program to show the message
.TE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Files
.TP 10
.PN $HOME/.mh_profile
The user profile.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH See Also
show(1mh), prev(1mh), mh_profile(5mh)
