.\" SCCSID: @(#)nroff.1	8.1	9/11/90
.TH nroff 1
.SH Name
nroff \- format text
.SH Syntax
.B nroff
[\|\fIoption...\fR\|] [\|\fIfile...\fR\|]
.SH Description
.NXR "nroff text processor"
.NXAM "nroff text processor" "tk command"
.NXAM "nroff text processor" "*roff text processor"
.NXR "text processor" "for monospace output"
The
.PN nroff
command formats text in the named
.I files
for typewriter-like devices.  For further information, see the
appropriate *roff reference pages.
The full capabilities of
.PN nroff
are described in the 
"Nroff/Troff User's Manual" found in the
\fISupplementary Documents, Volume 1: General User\fP.
.PP
If no
.I file
argument is present, the standard input is read.
An argument consisting of a single minus
.RB ( \- )
is taken to be a file name corresponding to the standard input.
.SH Options
.NXR "nroff text processor" "options"
The options, which may appear in any order so long as they appear
before the files, are:
.TP 12
.BI \-o list
Print only pages whose page numbers appear in the comma-separated
.I list
of numbers and ranges.  A range
.IB N \- M
means pages
.I N
through
.IR M ;
an initial
.I \-N
means from the beginning to page
.IR N ;
and a final
.IR
.IB N \-
means from
.I N
to the end.
.TP
.BI \-n N
Number first generated page
.IR N .
.TP
.BI \-s N
Stop every
.I N
pages.
The
.PN nroff
command halts prior to every
.I N
pages (default
.IR N =1)
to allow paper loading or changing, and resumes upon
receipt of a new line.
.TP
.BI \-m name
Prepend the macro file
.PN /usr/lib/tmac/tmac.name
to the input
.IR files .
.TP
.BI \-r aN
Set register
.I a
(one-character) to
.IR N .
.TP
.B \-i
Read standard input after the input files are exhausted.
.TP
.B \-q
Invoke the simultaneous input-output mode of the
.B rd
request.
.TP
.BI \-T name
Prepare output for specified terminal.  Known
.I names
are the
.I tabname
files in 
.PN /usr/lib/term .
The 
default name is tab37 for the Teletype Corporation Model 37 terminal.
.TP
.B \-e
Produce equally-spaced words in adjusted lines,
using full terminal resolution.
.TP
.B \-h
Use output tabs during horizontal spacing
to speed output and reduce output character count.
Tab settings are assumed to be every 8 nominal character widths.
.SH Files
.ta \w'/usr/lib/tmac/tmac.*  'u
/tmp/ta*	temporary file
.br
/usr/lib/tmac/tmac.*	standard macro files
.br
/usr/lib/term/*	terminal driving tables for
.PN nroff
.br
.SH See Also
col(1), tbl(1), term(5), man(7), me(7), ms(7), term(7)
.br
\fIThe Big Gray Book: The Next Step with ULTRIX\fP
.br
"Nroff/Troff User's Manual" and "A TROFF Tutorial" in the
\fISupplementary Documents, Volume 1: General User\fP
