.TH packf 1mh
.NXR "packf command"
.SH Name
packf \- compress a folder into a single file
.SH Syntax
.B packf
[
.I +folder
] [
.I msgs
] [
.B \-file
.I name
] [
.B \-help
]
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Description
Each message in a folder is normally stored 
as a separate file. 
The 
.PN packf
command takes all messages from the current folder 
and copies them to a single specified file.  
Each message in the file is separated by four <CTRL/A>s
and a newline.
.PP
You can specify a folder other than the current folder 
by using the 
.I +folder
argument.  
If you do not want all the messages in a folder 
to be packed into one file, 
you can specify a number of messages 
or a range of messages with message numbers.  
.PP
The first message packed will become the current message.
If you specify a 
.I +folder 
argument, that folder will become the current folder.
.PP
When messages have been packed into a file using 
.PN packf ,
you can separate them into individual messages using the 
.PN burst
command.
See
.MS burst 1mh .
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Options
.IP "\-file \fIname\fB" 10
Specifies the file in which you want the message(s)
to be stored.
If you specify an existing file then the specified messages 
will be appended to the end of that file. 
Otherwise, a new file will be created and the messages placed in it.
If you do not specify a filename, 
.PN packf 
attempts to place the messages in a file called
.PN msgbox
in the current working directory.
If this file does not exist,
.PN packf 
asks whether you want to create it.
.\"
.IP "\-help" 10
Prints a list of the valid options to this command.
.\"
.PP
The default settings for this command are:
.IP
.I +folder
defaults to the current folder
.br
.I msgs
defaults to all
.br
.B "\-file ./msgbox"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Examples
The first example shows all the messages in the folder
.PN +lrp
being packed into a file called 
.PN planning :
.EX
% \f(CBpackf +lrp -file planning\f(CW
.EE
.PP
The next example shows how 
.PN packf 
prompts you if you do not specify a 
.B "\-file"
option.
A file called
.PN msgbox
is created by 
.PN packf 
in your home directory,
and messages 3 to 5 are packed into it:
.EX
% \f(CBpackf +lrp 3-5\f(CW
Create file "/machine/disk/username/msgbox"? \f(CBy\f(CW
.EE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Profile Components
.TS
tab(+);
l l.
Path:+To determine the user's Mail directory
Msg-Protect:+To set protections when creating a new file
.TE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Files
.TS
tab(+);
l l.
$HOME/\&.mh_profile+The user profile.
.TE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH See Also
burst(1mh)
