.\" SCCSID: @(#)pix.1	8.1	9/11/90
.TH pix 1 VAX
.SH Name
pix \- Pascal interpreter and executor
.SH Syntax
.B pix
[\fB\-blnpstuwz\fR] [\fB\-i\fI name...] \fIname.p\fR [\|\fIargument...\fR]
.SH Description
.NXR "pix command"
.NXR "Pascal program" "interpreting"
.NXS "Pascal interpreter and executer" "pix command"
.NXS "Pascal interpreter code translator" "pix command"
.NXA "pix command" "px command"
The
.PN pix
command is a `load and go' version of Pascal which combines
the functions of the interpreter code translator
.PN pi
and the executor
.PN px .
It uses
.PN pi
to translate the program in the file name.p
and, if there were no fatal errors during translation,
causes the resulting interpreter code
to be executed by
.PN px
with the specified arguments.
A temporary file is used for the object code.
The file
.I obj
is neither created nor destroyed.
.SH Options
.IP \fB\-b\fR 8
Block buffers the output.
.IP \fB\-i\fIname\fR 
Enables the listing for any specified procedures
and functions, and while processing any specified
include files.
.IP \fB\-l\fR 
Creates a program listing while translating source.
.IP \fB\-n\fR 
Begins each listed include file on a new
page and with a banner line.
.IP \fB\-p\fR 
Suppresses control flow backtraces on error.
.IP \fB\-s\fR 
Accepts standard Pascal only.
.IP \fB\-t\fR 
Suppresses runtime test of subrange variables.
.IP \fB\-u\fR 
Runs in card image mode.
.IP \fB\-w\fR 
Suppresses all warning diagnostics.
.IP \fB\-z\fR 
Enables execution profiling.
.SH Files
.ta 2i
/usr/ucb/pi	Pascal translator
.br
/usr/ucb/px	Pascal executor
.br
/tmp/pix*	temporary
.br
/usr/lib/how_pix	basic explanation
.SH See\ Also
pi(1), px(1)
.br
"Berkeley Pascal User's Manual,"
\fISupplementary Documents, Volume 2: Programmer\fP
