.\" SCCSID: @(#)plot.1g	3.1	11/23/87
.TH plot 1g 
.SH Name
plot \- graphics filters
.SH Syntax
.B plot
[\fB\-T\fIterminal\fR\|[\fIraster\fR\|]\|] [\fB\-l\fR#] [\fB\-w\fR#] [\fB\-c\fR#]
.SH Description
.NXR "plot command"
.NXR "graphics filter"
.NXA "plot command" "term command"
.NXAM "plot command" "plot keyword"
The 
.PN plot
command reads plotting instructions 
from the standard input and produces plotting instructions for
a specified
.I terminal
on the standard output.
For further information see
.MS plot 5 .
.SH Options
The following options are available with the 
.PN plot
command.
.IP \fB\-T\fR\fIterminal\fR 15
Uses the specified terminal name as the terminal type
for which plotting instructions are to be generated.
If a 
.I terminal
type is not specified, the environment parameter $TERM
is used. For more information, see
.MS environ 7 .
The 
.I terminal
type can be one of the following:
.RS
.IP \fB450\fR 9
DASI Hyterm 450 terminal (diablo mechanism).
.IP \fB300\fR 9
DASI 300 or GSI terminal (diablo mechanism).
.IP \fB300S\fR 9
DASI 300S terminal (diablo mechanism).
.IP "\fB4014 or tek\fP" 9
Tektronix 4014 or 4015 with Enhanced Graphics Module.
(Use 4013 for Tektronix 4014 or Tektronix 4015 without 
the Enhanced Graphics Module).
.IP \fB4013\fP 9
Tektronix 4013 Storage scope
.IP \fBaed\fP 9
AED 512 color graphics terminal
.IP "\fBbitgraph or bg\fP" 9
BBN bitgraph graphics terminal
.IP \fBcrt\fP 9
Any crt capable of running
.MS vi 1
.IP \fBdumb\fP 9
dumb terminals without cursor addressing or line printers
.IP \fBgrn\fP 9
given a plot file, produces a grn file.
.IP \fBhp7221\fP 9
Hewlett Packard 7221 Graphics terminal.
.IP \fBhp2648\fP 9
Hewlett Packard 2648 Graphics terminal.
.IP "\fBimagen or ip"\fP 9
Imagen laser printer (default 240 DPI resolution).
.IP \fBlvp16\fR 9
DEC LVP16 Graphics Plotter.
.IP \fBhp7475a\fR 9
HP 7475A Graphics Plotter.
.IP \fBver\fR 9
Versatec D1200A printer-plotter. This version of
.PN plot
places a scan-converted image in 
.PN /usr/tmp/raster
and sends the result directly to the plotter device rather than to
the standard output.  The optional argument causes a previously
scan-converted file
.I raster
to be sent to the plotter.
.IP \fBvar\fP 9
Benson Varian printer-plotter.
.IP \fBvt125\fP 9
DEC vt125 terminal.
.RE
.IP \fIraster\fR 15
Is a scan-converted temporary file that is sent directly to
the plotter.  The
.I raster
file is only specified with the \-Tver option.
.RE
.PP
If 
.I terminal 
is either an lvp16 or a hp7475a, you
can specify the following options.  These options must
follow the \fB\-T\fIterminal\fR option:
.IP \fB\-l#\fR 15
length of paper window in plotter units (unit scale)
.IP \fB\-w#\fR 
width of paper window in plotter units (unit scale)
.IP \fB\-c#\fR 
initial pen carousel to be used
.SH Restrictions
A lockout protection does not exist for
.PN /usr/tmp/raster .
.SH Files
/usr/bin/t4013
.br
/usr/bin/aedplot
.br
/usr/bin/bgplot
.br
/usr/bin/crtplot
.br
/usr/bin/dumbplot
.br
/usr/bin/gigiplot
.br
/usr/bin/grnplot
.br
/usr/bin/hpplot
.br
/usr/bin/hp7221plot
.br
/usr/bin/implot
.br
/usr/bin/lvp16
.br
/usr/bin/tek
.br
/usr/bin/t450
.br
/usr/bin/t300
.br
/usr/bin/t300s
.br
/usr/bin/vplot
.br
/usr/tmp/raster
.SH See Also
graph(1g), plot(3x), plot(5)
