.TH pr 1
.SH Name
pr \- print files
.SH Syntax
.B pr
[ \fIoptions\fR ]
[ \fIfiles\fR ]
.SH Description
.NXR "print command"
The
.PN pr
command prints the named files on the standard output.
If
.I file
is designated by a minus sign (\-),
or if no files are specified the
.PN pr
command assumes standard input.
By default, the listing is separated into pages,
each headed by the page number, a date and time, and
the name of the file.
.PP
By default, columns are of equal width, separated
by at least one space.  Lines that do not fit are
truncated. However, if the
.B \-s
option is used, lines are not truncated
and columns are separated by the separation character.
.PP
If the standard output is associated with
a terminal, error messages are withheld
until
.PN pr
has finished printing.
.SH Options
The following \fIoptions\fP can be used singly or in combination:
.IP \fB\-a\fR 8
Prints multi-column output across the page.
.IP \fB\-b\fR 
Prints blank headers.
.IP \fB\-d\fR 
Double-spaces the output.
.IP "\fB\-e\fIck\fR" 
Expands
.I input
tabs to character positions
\fIk\fP+1, 2*\fIk\fP+1, 3*\fIk\fP+1,... \fIn\fR*\fIk\fP+1.
If
.I k
is 0 or is omitted, tabs are set
at every eighth position.
Tab characters in the input are expanded
into the appropriate number of spaces.  The default
for 
.I c
(any non-digit character)
is the tab character; therefore, if
.I c
is given, it is treated as the input tab character.
.IP \fB\-f\fR 
Uses form-feed character for new pages.
The default is to use a sequence of line-feeds.
The \fB-f\fR option causes the
.PN pr
command to pause before beginning the first page if
the standard output is associated with a terminal.
.IP \fB\-h\fR 
Uses the next argument as the header to be printed
instead of the file name.
.IP "\fB\-i\fIck\fR" 
Replaces white space in 
.I output
by inserting tabs
to character positions
\fIk\fP+1, 2*\fIk\fP+1, 3*\fIk\fP+1,...\fIn\fR*\fIk\fP+1.
If
.I k
is 0 or is omitted, tabs are set
at every eighth position.  The default
for 
.I c
(any non-digit character)
is the tab character; therefore, if
.I c
is given, it is treated as the input tab character.
.IP +\fIk\fR 
Begins printing with page
.I k
(default is 1).
.IP \-\fIk\fR 
Produces
.IR k \-column
output (default is 1).
The 
.B \-e
and
.B \-i
options are assumed for multi-column output.
.IP "\fB\-l\fIk\fR" 
Sets the length of a page to
.I k
lines.  The default is 66 lines.
.IP \fB\-m\fR 
Merges and prints all files simultaneously,
one per column (overrides the \-\fIk\fP,
and
.B \-a
options).
.IP "\fB\-n\fIck\fR" 
Numbers lines.  The default for 
.B k
is 20.
The number occupies the first \fIk\fP+1
character positions of each column of normal output
or each line of
.B \-m
output.
If
.I c,
which is any non-digit character is given,
it is appended to the line number to separate
it from whatever follows.  The default for
.I c
is a tab.
.IP "\fB\-o\fIk" 
Offsets each line by
.I k
character positions (default is 0).
The number of character positions
per line is the sum of the width and offset.
.IP \fB\-p\fR 
Pauses before beginning each page if the
output is directed to a terminal.  The
.PN pr
command rings the bell at the terminal and
awaits a carriage return.
.IP \fB\-r\fR 
Suppresses diagnostic reports on failure to open files.
.IP "\fB\-s\fIc\fR" 
Separates columns by the single character
.I c
instead of by the appropriate number
of spaces (default for
.I c
is a tab).
.IP \fB\-t\fR 
Suppresses the five-line identifying
header and the five-line trailer normally
supplied for each page.
The \fB-t\fR option causes the
.PN pr
command to quit printing after the last line of each file
without spacing to the end of the page.
.IP "\fB\-w\fIk\fR" 
Sets the width of a line to
.I k
character positions.  The
default is 72 for equal-width multi-column
output; otherwise there is no limit.
.SH Examples
Print
.I file1
and
.I file2
as a double-spaced, three-column listing
with the heading:  file list.
.EX
pr \|\-3dh \|"file \|list" \|file1 \|file2
.EE
Write
.I file1
on
.I file2,
expanding tabs to columns 10, 19, 28, 37,...:
.EX
pr \-e9 \-t <file1>file2
.EE
.SH Files
/dev/tty\(**	to suspend messages
.SH See Also
cat(1)
