.TH prev 1mh
.SH Name
prev \- show the previous message
.SH Syntax
.B prev 
[
.I +folder
] [
.B \-[no]header
] [
.B \-help
] [
.B "\-showproc"
.I program
] [
.B \-noshowproc
] [
.I "options to"
.PN showproc
]
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Description
.NXR "prev command"
.NXR "message" "show previous message"
The
.PN prev
command displays the previous message in the current folder.  
The previous message is the one before the current message
in the folder.
The message that is shown becomes the current message.
.PP
You can specify a folder other than the current folder by using the 
.I +folder
argument.
If you specify a folder, 
that becomes the current folder.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Options
.IP "\-header" 10
.PD 0
.IP "\-noheader" 10
.PD
Displays a one-line header before the message.
The header consists of the name of the folder
and the message number.
This is the default behavior.
It can be suppressed with the
.B \-noheader
option.
.\"
.IP "\-help" 10
Prints a list of the valid options to this command.
.\"
.IP "\-showproc \fIprogram\fR [ \fIoptions\fR ]\fB" 10
.PD 0
.IP "\-noshowproc" 10
.PD
Specifies an alternative program to list messages.
The default is to use the program defined by the
\f(CWshowproc:\fR entry in the
.PN \&.mh_profile
file.
As with
.PN show ,
you can give options to the
.PN showproc
program at the command line.
These are passed directly to
.PN showproc
by
.PN prev .
.\"
.PP
The defaults for this command are:
.IP
.I +folder
defaults to the current folder
.br
.B \-header
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Restrictions
The
.PN prev
command is really a link to the 
.PN show
program.
As a result,
if you make a link to 
.PN prev
and that link is not called 
.PN prev ,
your link will act like 
.PN show
instead.
To avoid this,
add a profile-entry for the link to your MH profile 
and add the argument 
.PN prev
to the entry.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Examples
The command in the following example displays the previous
message in the folder 
.PN +copylog :  
.EX
$ \f(CBprev +copylog\f(CW
.EE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Profile Components
.TS
tab(+);
l l.
Path:+To determine your Mail directory
showproc:+Program to show the message
.TE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Files
.TP 10
.PN $HOME/.mh_profile
The user profile.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH See Also
show(1mh), next(1mh)
