.\" SCCSID: @(#)ps.1	6.10 3/9/90
.TH ps 1
.SH Name
ps \- print process status statistics
.SH Syntax
.B ps
[
.I options
] [
.I namelist
] [
.I corefile
]
.SH Description
.NXR "ps command"
.NXA "ps command" "w command"
.NXAM "ps command" "pstat command"
.NXR "process" "printing status"
.NXR "process ID" "getting"
.NXR "crash dump" "analyzing"
The
.PN ps
command
displays information about processes. Information on processes can
change while
.PN ps
is running, so the information it gives is a snapshot taken at a given
time.
.PP
If you omit the
.B \-a
option,
only your processes are candidates to be displayed by
.PN ps . 
Specifying the
.B \-a
option
causes information about other users' processes to be displayed; 
specifying the
.B \-x
option
includes information on processes without control terminals.
.PP
You must use the
.B \-k 
option and specify both the
.I namelist 
and 
.I corefile
arguments when you look at a crash dump.  The 
.I namelist
argument indicates that information is to be gathered
using the specified system 
namelist
file.  (The 
namelist
file is a kernel image file).  If you omit
.IR namelist ,
.PN ps
uses
.PN /vmunix .
The 
.I core
argument indicates that 
information is to be gathered using
the specified
core file.  If you omit
.IR core ,
.PN ps
uses 
.PN /dev/mem .
.SH Options
.TP 10
.B \-#
Represents any given process number and must be the last option
given.  You cannot use this option with the
.B \-a
and 
.BI \-t x 
options.
.TP 10
.B \-C
Causes the
%CPU
field of the display to reflect the absolute percentage of cpu used by
the process for scheduling during its resident time .
.TP 10
.B \-S
Causes the
TIME
field of the display to reflect the amount of user+system time spent by
a process and its children. 
.TP 10
.B \-a
Displays information for processes executed from all users'
terminals.  The default is to show processes executed from your
terminal only.  You cannot use this option with the
.B \-#
or
.B \-t
option.
.TP 10
.B \-c
Displays the command names as stored internally in the system for
accounting purposes instead of the command arguments, which are kept in
the process address space.  This display is more reliable, if less
informative, because a process is free to destroy the latter
information.
.TP 10
.B \-e
Displays the environment as well as the command arguments.
.TP 10
.B \-g
Displays all processes within the process group.  Without this option,
.PN ps
displays only ``interesting'' processes.  Processes that are 
process group leaders are not considered interesting; therefore, top-level command
interpreters and processes waiting for users to log in 
are normally not shown.
.TP 10
.B \-k
Uses the file specified in the  
.I core 
argument in place of 
.PN /dev/kmem 
and 
.PN /dev/mem .  
If you specify the
.B \-k 
option but no 
.I core
argument,
.PN ps
uses 
.PN /dev/mem .
.TP 10
.B \-l
Displays information in long format, showing the fields PPID, CP, PRI,
NI, ADDR, SIZE, RSS, and WCHAN as described under Output Fields.
.TP 10
.B \-s
Adds the size SSIZ of the kernel stack of each process to the basic
output format for use by system administrators.
.TP 10
.BI \-t x
Displays information for only the specified terminal.  This option restricts output to
processes whose controlling terminal is
.I x.
Specify 
.I x
in the same format as
.PN ps
displays terminal names. For example,
.PN ps 
displays 
.PN t3
for tty3,
.PN tco
for console,
.PN td0
for ttyd0,
.PN t?
for processes with no terminal, and
.PN t
for processes at the current terminal. 
This option must be the last one given.  You cannot use this option with
the 
.B \-#
or
.B \-a
options.
.TP 10
.B \-u
Displays user-oriented output, which includes fields USER, %CPU, and
%MEM. This option also displays SZ and RSS, which are computed
differently than they are for the
.B \-l
and
.B \-v
options.  The SZ field is computed as SIZE + TSIZ (virtual size plus
size of text).  The RRS field is computed as RSS + (TRS/xccount) where
xccount is the number of processes currently sharing the text.
.TP 10
.B \-v
Displays process system time and user time in addition to cumulative
time.  This display includes fields RE, SL, PAGEIN, SIZE, RSS, LIM,
TSIZ, TRS, %CPU, and %MEM, described under Output Fields.
.TP 10
.B \-w
Produces 132-column rather than 80 column output.  If repeated, as
.BR \-ww ,
produces arbitrarily wide output.  This option allows
.PN ps
to display more of wide displays.
.TP 10
.B \-x
Displays information for all processes, including those not executed
from terminals.  
.SH Output Fields
The 
.PN ps
command displays the following fields in all output formats:
.IP PID 10
The process identification (PID) number
.IP TT 10
The control terminal of the process 
.IP TIME 10
The time, including both user and system time
.IP STAT 10
The state of the process given by a sequence of five
letters, such as RWNAV.
.IP
The first letter indicates the run status of the process:
.RS 10
.IP R 5
The process is running.
.IP T 
The process is stopped.
.IP P 
The process is 
in page wait. 
.IP D 
The process is in disk (or other short-term) wait.
.IP S 
The process is sleeping for less than about 20 seconds.
.IP I
The process is idle (sleeping longer than about 20 seconds).
.RE
.IP ""
The second letter indicates whether a process is swapped out:
.RS
.IP W
The process is swapped out.
.IP Z
The process is killed, but not yet removed.
.IP (blank)
The process is in core.
.IP >
The process has a specified soft limit on memory requirements and
is exceeding that limit.  This type of process is not swapped.
.PP
The third letter indicates whether a process is running
with an altered CPU scheduling priority, using 
.PN nice :
.IP N 5
The process priority is reduced.
.IP <
The process priority has been artificially raised.
.IP (blank)
The process is running without special treatment.
.PP
The fourth letter indicates any special treatment of the
process for virtual memory: 
.IP A 5
Represents VA_ANOM.  This status typically represents a 
.PN lisp 
process using a disk more efficiently by removing gaps caused by
deletes and then collecting the remaining data. 
.IP S
Represents VA_SEQL.  This status is typical of large image processing programs that
are using virtual memory to sequentially address voluminous data.
.IP (blank)
Represents VA_NORM.
.PP
The fifth letter indicates whether the process is a vector process:
.IP V
Indicates that the process is using vector hardware. Only processes
running on a VAX processor that contains vector hardware can have this
status.
.IP (blank)
Indicates the process is not using vector hardware.
.RE
.PP
The following fields are not displayed in all output formats:
.IP USER 10
Names the owner of the process.
.IP %CPU 10
Describes the use of the CPU by the process.  This percentage is a decaying average over a
minute or less of previous (real) time.  The time base over
which this percentage is computed varies because processes may be new. 
The sum of all %CPU fields can therefore exceed 200%.
.IP "NICE (or NI)" 10
Indicates the process scheduling increment.  For further information, see
.MS getpriority 2 .
.IP "SIZE (or SZ)" 10
Shows the virtual size of the process in 1024-byte units.
.IP RSS 10
Shows the real memory (resident set) size of the process in 1024-byte units.
.IP LIM 10
Indicates the soft limit on memory used, which is specified by a call to
.MS getrlimit 2 .
If no limit has been specified, this limit is shown as
.PN xx
.IP TSIZ 10
Shows the size of the text (shared program) image.
.IP TRS 10
Shows the size of resident (real memory) set of text.
.IP %MEM 10
Gives the percentage of real memory used by this process.
.IP RE 10
Indicates the residency time of the process (seconds in core).
.IP SL 10
Indicates the sleep time of the process (seconds blocked).
.IP PAGEIN 10
Shows the number of disk input and output operations resulting from references by the process
to pages not loaded in core.
.IP UID 10
Shows the numerical user identification number of the process owner.
.IP PPID 10
Shows the numerical identification number of the parent of process.
.IP CP 10
Displays the short-term CPU use factor used in scheduling.
.IP PRI 10
Displays process priority. (This value is nonpositive when the process
is in a wait state that cannot be interrupted.) 
.IP ADDR 10
Displays the swap address of the process or page frame of the beginning of the user
page table entries.
.IP WCHAN 10
Indicates the event for which the process is waiting (an address in the system), with
the initial part of the address truncated.  For example,
the address 80004000 displays
as 4000.
.sp
.IP F 10
Displays flags associated with the process as in
.PN "<sys/proc.h>" :
.br
.PP
.sp
.nf
.ta 1.1i 2.3i 
SLOAD	00000001	Process is resident in memory.
SSYS	00000002	System process:  swapper, pager, 
			idle (RISC only), trusted path daemon.
SLOCK	00000004	Process is being swapped out.
SSWAP	00000008	Process requested to swap out for page table 
		growth.
STRC	00000010	Traced.
SWTED	00000020	Used in tracing.
SULOCK	00000040	Locked in by \f(CWplock\fR(2).
SPAGE	00000080	Process is waiting for page-in to complete.
SKEEP	00000100	Process is protected from swapout while transferring.
			resources to another process.
SOMASK	00000200	Used by \f(CWsigpause\fR(2).
SWEXIT	00000400	Process is exiting.
SPHYSIO	00000800	Process is protected from swapout while doing physical 
		input or output.
SVFORK	00001000	Process resulted from a \f(CWvfork\fR(2) that is not 
			yet complete.
SVFDONE	00002000	Parent has received resources returned by
			\f(CWvfork\fR(2) child.
SNOVM	00004000	Process has no virtual memory, as it is a 
			parent in the context of \f(CWvfork\fR(2).
SPAGI	00008000	Process is demand-paging data pages from its 
			text gnode.
SSEQL	00010000	Process has advised of sequential memory access.
SUANOM	00020000	Process has advised of random memory access.
SXCTDAT	00080000	Process has indicated intent to execute data 
			or stack (RISC only).
SNOCLDSTP	00100000	POSIX environment: no SIGCLD generated when 
			children stop (formerly named SOUSIG).
SOWEUPC	00200000	Process is owed a profiling tick.
SSEL	00400000	Used by \f(CWselect\fR(2).
SLOGIN	00800000	Process is a login process.
SPTECHG	01000000	The page table entries for the process have changed.
SLKDONE	04000000	System V file lock has been applied.
SFIXADE	08000000	Fix of unaligned accesses is being attempted
			(RISC only).
SEXECDN	10000000	Process has done an \f(CWexecve\fR(2).
SIDLEP	20000000	The idle process (RISC only).
.fi
.PD
.PP
A process that has a parent and has exited, but for which the parent
has not yet waited, is marked \f(CW<defunct>\fR.  A process that is blocked
trying to exit is marked \f(CW<exiting>\fR. The 
.PN ps
command determines the filename and arguments given
when the process was created by examining memory or the swap area.  The
method is unreliable because, for example,  a process can
destroy this information. The filename and arguments 
.PN ps
displays might be incorrect.
.SH Files
.TP 1.2i
.PN /dev
Searched to find swap device and terminal names
.TP 1.2i
.PN /dev/drum
Swap device
.TP 1.2i
.PN /dev/kmem
Kernel memory
.TP 1.2i
.PN /dev/mem
User process information
.TP 1.2i
.PN /vmcore
Core file
.TP 1.2i
.PN /vmunix
System namelist
.SH See Also
kill(1), w(1), getpriority (2), getrlimit(2), dump(5) 
