.\" SCCSID: @(#)ptx.1	8.1	9/11/90
.\" Last modified by MJT on 24-Apr-85  2247
.\"
.TH ptx 1
.SH Name
ptx \- create permuted index
.SH Syntax
.B ptx
[\|\fIoption...\fR\|] [\|\fIinput\fR\|[\fIoutput\fR\|]\|]
.SH Description
.NXR "ptx command"
.NXR "index command"
The
.PN ptx
command generates a permuted index to file
.I input
on file
.I output
(standard input and output default).
It has three phases: the first does the permutation, generating
one line for each keyword in an input line.
The keyword is rotated to the front.
The permuted file is then
sorted.
Finally, the sorted lines are rotated so the keyword
comes at the middle of the page.
The
.PN ptx
command produces output in the form:
.br
.IP
\&.xx "tail" "before keyword" "keyword and after" "head"
.PP
where .xx may be an
.PN nroff
or
.PN troff
macro
for user-defined formatting.
The
.I before keyword
and
.I keyword and after
fields incorporate as much of the line as fits
around the keyword when it is printed at the middle of the page.
The
.PN tail
and
.PN head
commands,
at least one of which is an empty string "",
are wrapped-around pieces small enough to fit
in the unused space at the opposite end of the line.
When original text must be discarded, `/' marks the spot.
.SH Options
.NXR "ptx command" "options"
The following options can be applied:
.IP "\fB\-\|b\fI break\fR" 20
Use the characters in the 
.I break
file as separators.
In any case, tab, new line,
and space characters are always used as break characters.
.IP \fB\-f\fR 20
Folds upper and lower case letters for sorting.
.IP "\fB\-\|g\fI n\fR" 20
Uses specified number as interfield gap.  
The default gap is 3 characters.
.IP "\fB\-\|i\fI ignore\fR" 20
Do not use as keywords any words given in the
.I
ignore
file.
If the \fB\-i\fR and \fB\-o\fR options are missing, use /usr/lib/eign
as the 
.I ignore
file.
.IP "\fB\-\|o\fI only\fR" 20
Use words listed only in the \fIonly\fR file.
.IP \fB\-r\fR 20
Uses leading nonblanks as reference identifiers.  
Attach that identifier as a 5th field on each output line.
.IP \fB\-t\fR 20
Prepares the output for the phototypesetter.  
The default line length is 100 characters.
.IP "\fB\-\|w\fI n\fR" 20
Use the next argument,
.I n,
as the width of the output line.
The default line length is 72 characters.
.SH Restrictions
.NXR "ptx command" "restricted"
Line length counts do not account for overstriking or
proportional spacing.
.SH Files
/usr/bin/sort
.br
/usr/lib/eign
