.\" SCCSID: @(#)pxp.1	8.1	9/11/90
.TH pxp 1 VAX
.SH Name
pxp \- Pascal execution profiler
.SH Syntax
.B pxp
[\fB\-acdefjnstuw_\fR\|] [\fB\-23456789\fR\|] [\fB\-z\fR[\fIname...\fR\|]\|] 
\fIname.p\fR
.SH Description
.NXR "Pascal program" "profiling"
.NXR "pxp command"
.NXS "Pascal execution profiler" "pxp command"
The
.PN pxp
command
can be used to obtain execution profiles of Pascal programs or
as a pretty-printer.
To produce an execution profile all that is necessary is to translate
the program specifying the
.B z
option to
.PN pi
or
.PN pix ,
to execute the program,
and to then issue the command
.EX
pxp \-z name.p
.EE
A reformatted listing is output if none of the
.BR c ,
.BR t ,
or
.B z
options are specified;
thus
.EX
pxp old.p > new.p
.EE
places a pretty-printed version of the program
in old.p in the file new.p.
.SH Options
.NXR "pxp command" "options"
The use of the following options of
.PN pxp
is discussed in sections 2.6, 5.4, 5.5 and 5.10 of the
"Berkeley Pascal User's Manual" in the
\fISupplementary Documents, Volume 2: Programmer\fP.
.IP \fB\-\_\fR 5
Underscores all keywords.  
.IP \fB\-\fId\fR 
Uses the specified number (\fB\-\fId\fR) as the indentation unit.   
The default is 4.
.IP \fB\-a\fR 
Displays all procedures (even those not executed).  
.IP \fB\-c\fR 
Uses the
.PN core
file in generating the profiling data.  
.IP \fB\-d\fR 
Displays all declaration parts.  
.IP \fB\-e\fR 
Eliminates
.PN include
directives when reformatting a file.  
The
.PN include
is replaced by the reformatted contents of the specified
file.
.IP \fB\-f\fR 
Displays all parenthesized expression.  
.IP \fB\-j\fR 
Left justifies all procedures and functions.
.IP \fB\-n\fR 
Begins a new page for each included file.  
In profiles, print a blank line at the top of the page.
.IP \fB\-s\fR 
Strips comments from the input text.
.IP \fB\-t\fR 
Prints a table summarizing
.PN  procedure
and
.PN  function
call counts.
.IP \fB\-u\fR 
Generates the output in card image format, using only the first 72 characters of
input lines.  
.IP \fB\-w\fR 
Suppresses all warning diagnostics.
.IP \fB\-z\fR 
Generate an execution profile for the specified modules (next arguments).
If no
.IR name \|s,
are given the profile is of the entire program.
If a list of names is given, then only any specified
.BR procedure s
or
.BR function s
and the contents of any specified
.B include
files appear in the profile.
.SH Restrictions
.NXR "pxp command" "restricted"
Does not place multiple statements per line.
.SH Diagnostics
For a basic explanation of the
.PN pxp
command, type:
.EX
pxp
.EE
Error diagnostics include
`No profile data in file'
with the
.B c
option if the
.B z
option was not enabled to
.PN pi;
`Not a Pascal system core file'
if the core is not from a
.PN px
execution;
`Program and count data do not correspond'
if the program was changed after compilation, before profiling;
or if the wrong program is specified.
.SH Files
.TP 20
name.p		
input file
.TP
name.i		
include file(s)
.TP
pmon.out		
profile data
.TP
core			
profile data source with
.B  \-c
.TP
/usr/lib/how_pxp	
information on basic usage
.ne 8
.SH See Also
pi(1), px(1)
.br
"Berkeley Pascal User's Manual,"
\fISupplementary Documents, Volume 2: Programmer\fP
