.\" SCCSID: @(#)rcp.1c	8.2	3/6/91
.TH rcp 1c
.SH Name
rcp \- remote file copy
.SH Syntax
.B rcp
[ \fB\-p\fR ]
\fIfile1 file2\fR
.br
.B rcp
[\fB\-r\fR] [\fB\-p\fR] \fIfile... directory\fR
.SH Description
.NXR "rcp command"
.NXA "rlogin command" "rcp command"
.NXA "ftp program" "rcp command"
.NXA "rsh program" "rcp command"
.NXR "file" "copying remote"
The
.PN rcp
command
copies files between machines.  Each
.I file
or
.I directory
argument is either a remote file name of the
form rhost:path, or a local file name.  Local
file names do not contain colons (:) or backslashes (\\) 
before colons.
.PP
Note that the
.PN rcp 
command refuses to copy a file onto itself.
.PP
If
.I path
is not a full path name, it is interpreted relative to
your login directory on 
.IR rhost .
To ensure that the metacharacters are interpreted
remotely, a remote host's
.I path
can be quoted by either using a backslash (\\) before
a single character, or enclosing character strings in 
double (") or single (') quotes.
.PP
The
.PN rcp
command does not prompt for passwords; your current local user name
must exist on
.I rhost
and allow remote command execution via
.MS rsh 1c .
.PP
The
.PN rcp
command
handles third party copies, where neither source nor target files
are on the current machine.
Hostnames may also take the form rname@rhost to use
.I rname
rather than the current user name on the remote host.
The following example shows how to copy the file foo
from user1@mach1 to user2@mach2:
.EX
 $ rcp user1@mach1:foo  user2@mach2:foo
.EE
Note that the file .rhosts on mach2 in
user2's account must include an entry for mach1 user1.
Also note that it may be necessary for the person implementing the 
.PN rcp
command to be listed in the .rhosts file for mach1 user1.
.PP
By default, the mode and owner of
.I file2 
are preserved if
.I file2
already exists.
Otherwise, the mode of the source file modified by 
.MS umask 2
on the destination host is used.
.SH Options
.IP \fB\-p\fR 5 
Preserves the modification times and modes
of the source files in its copies, ignoring the
.PN umask .
.IP \fB\-r\fR
Copies files in all subdirectories recursively, if the
file to be copied is a directory.  In this case the
destination must be a directory.    
.SH Restrictions
The 
.PN rcp
command is confused by output generated by commands in a \&.cshrc file 
on the remote host.
In particular, `where are you?' and `stty: Can't assign requested address' 
are messages
which can result if output is generated by the startup file.
.SH See Also
ftp(1c), rlogin(1c), rsh(1c) 
