.\" SCCSID: @(#)rlogin.1c	8.1	9/11/90
.TH rlogin 1c
.SH Name
rlogin \- remote login
.SH Syntax
.B rlogin 
\fIrhost\fR [\fB\-e\fR\fI\|c\fR\|] [\-8] [\-\fBL\fR] [\fB\-l\fI username\fR\|]
.br
.I rhost
[\fB\-e\fR\fI\|c\fR\|] [\-8] [\-\fBL\fR] [\fB\-l\fI username\fR\|]
.SH Description
.NXR "rlogin command"
.NXA "rlogin command" "dgate command"
.NXA "rlogin command" "tip command"
.NXA "rlogin command (general)" "rlogin command"
.NXR "logging in" "to remote system"
The
.PN rlogin
command connects your terminal on the current local host system,
.I lhost,
to the remote host system,
.I rhost.
.PP
Each host has a file 
.PN /etc/hosts.equiv
which contains a list of 
.I rhosts
with which it shares account names.
The host names must be the standard names as described in
.MS rsh 1c .
When you use the
.PN rlogin
command to login as the same user on an equivalent host, you do not need
to specify a password.
.PP
You can also have a private equivalence list in a file \&.rhosts
in your login directory.  Each line in this file should contain the 
.I rhost
name and a \fIusername\fP separated by a space, giving additional cases
where logins without passwords are permitted.
If the originating user is not equivalent to the remote user, then
the remote system prompts for a login and password as in
.MS login 1 .
.PP
To avoid security problems, the \&.rhosts file must be owned by
either the remote user or root and it may not be a symbolic link.
.PP
Your remote terminal type is the same as your local
terminal type, which is specified by your environment TERM variable.
Except for delays, all echoing takes place at the remote site so
the rlogin is transparent.  Flow control by 
.CT S 
and \<CTRL/Q\>, and flushing of input and output on interrupts
are handled properly.
The optional argument \-8 allows an eight-bit input data path at all times.
Otherwise, parity bits are stripped except when the remote site's stop
and start characters are other than 
.CT S 
and 
\<CTRL/Q\>.
A tilde followed by a dot (~.) on a separate line disconnects
from the remote host, where the tilde (~)
is the escape character.  Similarly, a tilde followed by
\<CTRL/Z\> (~ \<CTRL/Z\>), where
.CT Z
is the suspend character, suspends the rlogin session.
.PP
Substitution of the delayed-suspend character, which is normally 
\<CTRL/Y\>,
for the 
suspend character suspends the send portion of the rlogin, but allows output
from the remote system.
A different escape character may
be specified by the
.B \-e
option.
There is no space separating this option flag and the argument
character.
.SH Options
.IP \fB\-8\fR 20
Allows an 8-bit input data path at all times.
.IP \fB\-e\fIc\fR 20 
Uses the specified character as the 
.PN rlogin 
escape character.  If not
specified, uses a tilde (~).
.IP "\fB\-l\fI username\fR" 20
Logs you in as the specified user, not as your user login name.
.IP \fB\-L\fR 20
Runs session in litout mode.
.SH Files
/usr/hosts/*		for \fIrhost\fP version of the command
.SH See Also
rsh(1c)
