.\" SCCSID: @(#)roffbib.1	8.1	9/11/90
.\" SCCSID: @(#)roffbib.1	8.1	9/11/90
.TH roffbib 1
.SH Name
roffbib \- run off bibliographic database
.SH Syntax
.B roffbib
[\|\fIoptions\fR\|] [\|\fIfile...\fR\|]
.SH Description
.NXR "roffbib text processor"
.NXA "nroff text processor" "roffbib text processor"
.NXR "bibliography" "formatting"
The
.PN roffbib
command prints out all records in a bibliographic database,
in bibliography format rather than as footnotes or endnotes.
Generally it is used in conjunction with
.PN sortbib :
.PP
.EX
sortbib  database | roffbib
.EE
.SH Options
The
.PN roffbib
command accepts most of the options understood by
nroff(1). 
.IP \fB\-T\fIterm\fR 12
Uses specified name as terminal type for which output is prepared.  
.IP \fB\-x\fR 
Suppresses the printing of abstracts.  
.PP
If abstracts or comments are entered following the %X field key,
.PN roffbib
formats them into paragraphs for an annotated bibliography.
Several %X fields may be given if several
annotation paragraphs are desired.
.IP \fB\-e\fR 
Formats text with equally spaced words, justified lines, and full resolution.  
.IP \fB\-h\fR 
Uses tabs in horizontal spacing to speed 
output and reduce output character count. 
Tab characters are assumed to be every 8 nominal character widths.
.IP \fB\-n\fR 
Uses specified number (\fB\-n\fIN\fR) as first page to be printed.  
.IP \fB\-o\fR 
Uses specified list (\fB\-o\fIlist\fR) as only pages to be printed.  
A range 
.I N\-M
means pages 
.I N
through
.I M.
An initial 
.I \-N 
means from the beginning to page
.I N.
A final 
.I N\-
means from
.I N
to the end.
.IP \fB\-s\fR 
Stops after specified number of pages (\fB\-s\fIn\fR).  
.IP "\fB\-\|m\fI mac\fR" 
Specifies a user-defined set of macros with space between \fB\-m\fR 
and the macro file name.  
This set of macros replaces the ones
defined in /usr/lib/tmac/tmac.bib.
.IP \fB\-V\fR 
Sends output to the Versatec. 
.IP \fB\-Q\fR 
Queues output for the phototypesetter.
.IP \fB\-r\fIaN\fR 
Sets named register \fIa\fR to specified value \fIN\fR.
.PP
Four command-line registers control formatting style
of the bibliography, much like the number registers of
ms(7).
The command-line argument
.BR \-r N1
numbers
the references starting at one (1).
The flag
.BR \-r V2
double spaces the bibliography,
while
.BR \-r V1
double spaces references
but single spaces annotation paragraphs.
The line length can be changed from the default 6.5 inches
to 6 inches with the
.BR \-r L6i
argument,
and the page offset can be set from the default of 0
to one inch by specifying
.BR \-r O1i
(capital O, not zero).
Note: with the
.B \-V
and
.B \-Q
flags
the default page offset is already one inch.
.SH Files
.ta \w'/usr/lib/tmac/tmac.bib\0\0'u
.nf
/usr/lib/tmac/tmac.bib	file of macros used by \fInroff/troff\fP
.fi
.SH See Also
addbib(1), indxbib(1), lookbib(1), refer(1), sortbib(1)
