.\" SCCSID: @(#)sact.1	8.1 9/11/90
.TH sact 1
.SH Name
sact \- display current SCCS file editing activity
.SH Syntax
.B sact \fIfiles\fR
.SH Description
.NXR "sact command (sccs)"
.NXR "SCCS file" "printing"
.NXAM "sccsfile" "SCCS file"
The
.PN sact
command informs the user of any impending deltas to a named SCCS file.
This situation occurs when the
.PN get
command with the
.B \-e
option has been previously executed without a subsequent execution 
of the
.PN delta
command.
If a directory is named on the command line,
.PN sact
behaves as though each file in the directory were 
specified as a named file,
except that non-SCCS files and unreadable files are silently ignored.
If a name of - is given, the standard input is read with each line being
taken as the name of an SCCS file to be processed.
.PP
The output for each named file consists of five fields 
separated by spaces.
.IP "Field 1" 10
Specifies the SID of a delta that currently exists in the SCCS file
to which changes will be made to make the new delta.
.IP "Field 2" 10
Specifies the SID for the new delta to be created.
.IP "Field 3" 10
Contains the login name of the user who will make the delta (that is,
executed a
.PN get
for editing.
.IP "Field 4" 10
Contains the date that
.PN get
.B \-e
was executed.
.IP "Field 5" 10
Contains the time that
.PN get
.B \-e
was executed.
.SH Diagnostics
See
.MS sccshelp 1 
for explanations.
.SH See Also
delta(1), get(1), sccs(1), sccshelp(1), unget(1), sccsfile(5))
.br
\fIGuide to the Source Code Control System\fP
