.\" SCCSID: @(#)sh5.1	8.1	9/11/90
.TH sh5 1 
.SH Name
sh5, rsh5 \- shell, the standard/restricted command programming language
.SH Syntax
.B sh5
[\fB\-acefhiknrstuvx\fR] [\|\fIargs\fR\|]
.br
.B rsh5
[\fB\-acefhiknrstuvx\fR] [\|\fIargs\fR\|]
.SH Description
.NXB "sh5 command interpreter"
.NXR "rsh5 program"
The
.PN sh5
program is a command line interpreter and programming language
that executes commands read from a terminal
or a file.
The
.PN rsh5
program is a restricted version of the standard command interpreter
.PN sh5 . 
It is used to set up login names and execution environments whose
capabilities are more controlled than those of the standard shell.
See
.B Invocation\^
below
for the meaning of arguments to the shell.
This version of the shell is from System V Release 2.  For further
information about the standard Bourne shell interpreter, see 
.MS sh 1 .
.SS Definitions
.NXR "blank" "defined"
.NXR "parameter" "defined"
.NXR "name" "defined"
A blank is a tab or a space.  A name
is a sequence of letters, digits, or underscores beginning with a letter
or underscore.
A parameter
is a name, a digit, or any of the characters
.BR \(** ,
.BR @ ,
.BR # ,
.BR ? ,
.BR \- ,
.BR $ ,
and
.BR !\\^ .
.SS Commands
.NXR "simple command" "defined" 
A simple command is a sequence of nonblank
words separated by blanks.
The first word specifies the name of the command to
be executed.
Except as specified below,
the remaining words are passed as arguments
to the invoked command.
The command name is passed as argument 0.
For further information, see
.MS execve 2 .
The value of a simple command is its exit status
if it terminates normally, or (octal) 200+\fIstatus\^\fP if
it terminates abnormally. For a list of status values, see
.MS signal 3 .
.PP
A pipeline is a sequence of one or more
commands separated by 
.BR |
(or, for historical compatibility, by
.BR ^ ). 
.NXR "pipeline" "defined"
The standard output of each command but the last
is connected by a
.MS pipe 2
to the standard input of the next command.
Each command is run as a separate process.
The shell waits for the last command to terminate.
The exit status of a pipeline is the exit status of the last command.
.PP
A list is a sequence of one or more
.NXR "pipelines" "lists"
pipelines separated by
.BR ; ,
.BR & ,
.BR && ,
or
.BR || ,
and optionally terminated by
.B ;
or
.BR & .
Of these four symbols,
.B ;
and
.B &
have equal precedence,
which is lower than that of
.B &&
and
.BR || .
The symbols
.B &&
and
.B ||
also have equal precedence.
A semicolon
.RB ( ; )
causes sequential execution of the preceding pipeline.  An ampersand
.RB ( & )
causes asynchronous execution
of the preceding pipeline.  That is, the shell does
not wait for that pipeline to finish.
The symbol
.B &&
.RB (| |)
causes the
list following it to be executed only if the preceding
pipeline returns a zero (nonzero) exit status.
An arbitrary number of new-lines may appear in a
list, instead of semicolons, to delimit commands.
.PP
A command is either a simple command or one of the following.
Unless otherwise stated,
the value returned by a command is that of the
last simple command executed in the command.
.TP
\fBfor\fP \fIname\fP [ \fBin\fP \fIword...\fP ] \fBdo\fP \fIlist\fP \fBdone\fP
.NXR "for command (System V)"
Each time a
.B for
command is executed,
.I name\^
is set to the next
.I word\^
taken from the
.B in
.I word\^
list.
If
.BI in " word\^"
\&.\|.\|.
is omitted, then
the
.B for
command executes the \fBdo\fP \fIlist\^\fP
once for each positional parameter that is set.
For further information, see
.B Parameter Substitution
below.
Execution ends when there are no more words in the list.
.TP
\fBcase\fP \fIword\fP \fBin\fP  [ \fIpattern\fP [ | \fIpattern\fP ] ...) \fIlist\fP ;; ] ... \fBesac\fP
.NXR "case command (System V)"
.B case
command executes the
.I list\^
associated with the first
.I pattern\^
that matches
.IR word .
The form of the patterns is
the same as that used for
file-name generation 
except that a slash, a leading dot, or a dot immediately
following a slash need not be matched explicitly.
For further information, see
.B File Name Generation. 
.TP
\fBif\fP \fIlist\fP \fBthen\fP \fIlist\fP [ \fBelif\fP \fIlist\fP \fBthen\fP \fIlist\fP ] ...  [ \fBelse\fP \fIlist\fP ] \fBfi\fP
.NXR "if command (System V)"
The
.I list\^
following \fBif\fP is executed and,
if it
returns a zero exit status, the
.I list\^
following
the first
.B then
is executed.
Otherwise, the
.I list\^
following \fBelif\fP
is executed and, if its value is zero,
the
.I list\^
following
the next
.B then
is executed.
Failing that, the
.B else
.I list\^
is executed.
If no
.B else
.I list\^
or
.B then
.I list\^
is executed, then the
.B if
command returns a zero exit status.
.TP
\fBwhile\fP \fIlist\^\fP \fBdo\fP \fIlist\^\fP \fBdone\fP
.NXR "while command (SystemV)"
A
.B while
command repeatedly executes the
.B while
.I list\^
and, if the exit status of the last command in the list is zero, executes
the
.B do
.IR list .
Otherwise the loop terminates.
If no commands in the
.B do
.I list\^
are executed, then the
.B while
command returns a zero exit status.
The 
.B until
command may be used in place of
.B while
to negate
the loop termination test.
.TP
(\fIlist\^\fP)
Execute
.I list\^
in a sub-shell.
.TP
{\fIlist\^\fP;}
Simply executes
.I list\^
from current shell.
.TP
\fIname\^\fP () {\fIlist\^\fP\;}
Define a function
which is referenced by
.I name\^.
The body of the function
is the
.I list\^
of commands between
.BR { " and " } "."
Execution of functions is described below.  For further information, see
.B Execution.
.PD
.PP
The following words
are only recognized as the first word of a command and when not quoted:
.if t .RS
.PP
.B
.if n if then else elif fi case esac for while until do done { }
.if t if  then  else  elif  f\&i  case  esac  for  while  until  do  done  {  }
.if t .RE
.SS Comments
.NXR "sh5 command interpreter" "comments"
A word beginning with
.B #
causes that word and all the following characters up to a new-line
to be ignored.
.SS Command Substitution
.NXR "sh5 command interpreter" "command substitution"
The standard output from a command enclosed in
a pair of grave accents 
.br
( \(ga\fIcommand\fP\(ga ) may be used as part 
or all of a word.
Trailing new-lines are removed.
.SS Parameter Substitution
.NXR "sh5 command interpreter" "parameter substitution"
The character
.B $
is used to introduce substitutable 
parameters.
There are two types of parameters,
positional and keyword.
If parameter is a digit, it is a positional parameter.
Positional parameters may be assigned values by
.BR set .
Keyword parameters (also known as variables)
may be assigned values by writing:
.EX
name = value [ name = value ] ...
.EE
.PP
Pattern-matching is not performed on value.
There cannot be a function and a variable with the same name.
.PP
.PD 0
.TP
\fB${\fP\fIparameter\^\fP\fB}\fP
The value, if any, of the parameter is substituted.
The braces are required only when
.I parameter\^
is followed by a letter, digit, or underscore
that is not to be interpreted as part of its name.
If
.I parameter\^
is
.B \(**
or
.BR @ ,
all the positional
parameters, starting with
.BR $1 ,
are substituted
(separated by spaces).
Parameter
.B $0
is set from argument zero when the shell
is invoked.
.TP
\fB${\fP\fIparameter\^\fP\fB:\-\fP\fIword\^\fP\fB}\fP
If
.I parameter\^
is set and is non-null, substitute its value.
Otherwise substitute
.IR word .
.TP
\fB${\fP\fIparameter\^\fP\fB:=\fP\fIword\^\fP\fB}\fP
If
.I parameter\^
is not set or is null
set it to
.IR word .
The value of the parameter is substituted.
Positional parameters may not be assigned to
in this way.
.TP
\fB${\fP\fIparameter\^\fP\fB:?\fP\fIword\^\fP\fB}\fP
If
.I parameter\^
is set and is non-null, substitute its value;
otherwise, print
.I word\^
and exit from the shell.
If
.I word\^
is omitted, the message
``parameter null or not set''
is printed.
.TP
\fB${\fP\fIparameter\^\fP\fB:+\fP\fIword\^\fP\fB}\fP
If
.I parameter\^
is set and is non-null, substitute
.IR word ;
otherwise substitute nothing.
.PD
.PP
In the above,
.I word\^
is not evaluated unless it is
to be used as the substituted string,
so that, in the following example,
.B pwd
is executed only if
.B d
is not set or is null:
.EX
echo ${d:\-`pwd`}
.EE
.PP
If the colon
.RB ( : )
is omitted from the above expressions, the
shell only checks whether 
.I parameter\^
is set or not.
.PP
The following
parameters
are automatically set by the shell:
.RS
.PD 0
.TP
.B #
The number of positional parameters in decimal.
.TP
.B \-
Flags supplied to the shell on invocation or by
the
.B set
command.
.TP
.B ?
The decimal value returned by the last synchronously executed command.
.TP
.B $
The process number of this shell.
.TP
.B !
The process number of the last background command invoked.
.PD
.RE
.PP
The following
parameters
are used by the shell:
.RS
.PD 0
.TP
.B
.SM LOGNAME
The name of the user's login account, corresponding to the login name
in the user database.
.TP
.B
.SM HOME
The default argument (home directory) for the
.MS cd 1
command.
.TP
.B
.SM PATH
The search path for commands.  For further information, see
.B Execution
below.
The user may not change
.B \s-1PATH\s+1
if executing under
.PN rsh5 .
.TP
.B
.SM CDPATH
The search path for the
.MS cd 1
command.
.TP
.B
.SM MAIL
If this parameter is set to the name of a mail file
and the 
.B \s-1MAILPATH\s+1
parameter is not set, the shell informs the user of the arrival of mail 
in the specified file.
.TP
.B
.SM MAILCHECK
This parameter specifies how often 
(in seconds) the shell
will check for the arrival of mail in the files specified by the
.B \s-1MAILPATH\s+1
or
.B \s-1MAIL\s+1
parameters.
The default value is 600 seconds (10 minutes).
If set to 0, the shell will check before each prompt.
.TP
.B
.SM MAILPATH
A colon 
.RB ( : )
separated list of file names.
If this parameter is set, the shell informs the user of the arrival of mail
in any of the specified files. 
Each file name can be followed by 
.B %
and a message that will be printed when the 
modification time changes.
The default message is
.B you have mail.
.TP
.SM
.B PS1
Primary prompt string, by default
.RB `` "$ \|" ''.
.TP
.SM
.B PS2
Secondary prompt string, by default
.RB `` "> \|" ''.
.TP
.SM
.B IFS
Internal field separators,
normally
.BR space ,
.BR tab ,
and
.BR new-line .
.TP
.B
.SM SHELL
When the shell is invoked, it scans the environment 
for this name. For further information, see
.B Environment
below.
If it is found and there is an 'r'
in the file name part of its value, the
shell becomes a restricted shell.
.PD
.RE
.PP
The shell gives default values to
\fB\s-1PATH\s+1\fP, \fB\s-1PS1\s+1\fP, \fB\s-1PS2\s+1\fP, \fB\s-1MAILCHECK\s+1\fP and \fB\s-1IFS\s+1\fP.
.SM
.B LOGNAME,
.SM
.B HOME,
and
.SM
.B MAIL
are set by
.MS login 1 .
.SS Blank Interpretation
After parameter and command substitution,
the results of substitution are scanned for internal field separator
characters (those found in
.BR \s-1IFS\s+1 )
and split into distinct arguments where such characters are found.
Explicit null arguments (\^\fB"\^"\fP or \fB'\^'\fP\^) are retained.
Implicit null arguments,
those resulting from parameters
that have no values are removed.
.SS File Name Generation
.NXR "pattern" "matching"
Following substitution, each command
word is scanned for the characters
.BR \(** ,
.BR ? ,
and
.BR [ .
If one of these characters appears
the word is regarded as a
pattern.
The word is replaced with alphabetically sorted file
names that match the pattern.
If no file name is found that matches the pattern,
the word is left unchanged.
The character
.B .
at the start of a file name
or immediately following a
.BR / ,
as well as the character
.B /
itself,
must be matched explicitly.
.PP
.PD 0
.RS
.TP
.B \(**
Matches any string, including the null string.
.TP
.B ?
Matches any single character.
.TP
.BR [...]
Matches any one of the enclosed characters.
A pair of characters separated by
.B \-
matches any
character lexically between the pair, inclusive.
If the first character following the opening 
``[''
is a
.B "``!''"
any character not enclosed is matched.
.PD
.RE
.SS Quoting
.NXR "sh5 command interpreter" "special characters and"
The following characters have a special meaning to the shell
and cause termination of a word unless quoted:
.RS
.PP
\fB;  &  (  ) |  ^  <  >  new-line  space  tab\fP
.RE
.PP
A character may be quoted
(that is, made to stand for itself)
by preceding
it with a
.BR \e .
The pair
.B \enew-line
is ignored.
All characters enclosed between a pair of single quote marks (' '),
except a single quote,
are quoted.
Inside double quote marks
(\fB"\^"\fP),
parameter and command substitution occurs and
.B \e
quotes the characters
.BR \e ,
.BR ` ,
\fB"\fP,
and
.BR $ .
.B
"$\(**"
is equivalent to
\fB"$1 \|$2\fP \|.\|.\|.\fB"\fP,
whereas
.B
"$@"
is equivalent to
.B
"$1"\|
.B
"$2"\|
\&.\|.\|.\|.
.SS Prompting
.NXR "sh5 command interpreter" "prompts"
When used interactively,
the shell prompts with the value of
.SM
.B PS1
before reading a command.
If at any time a new-line is typed and further input is needed
to complete a command, the secondary prompt
(that is, the value of
.BR \s-1PS2\s+1 )
is issued.
.SS Input/output
.NXR "sh5 command interpreter" "directing input"
.NXR "sh5 command interpreter" "directing output"
Before a command is executed, its input and output
may be redirected using a special notation interpreted by the shell.
The following may appear anywhere in a simple command
or may precede or follow a
command and are not passed on to the invoked command.
Substitution occurs before
word or digit is used:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 14
\fB<\fIword\fP
Use file
.I word\^
as standard input (file descriptor 0).
.TP
\fB>\fIword\fP
Use file
.I word\^
as standard output (file descriptor 1).
If the file does not exist it is created.
Otherwise, it is truncated to zero length.
.TP
\fB>\&>\&\fIword\fP
Use file
.I word\^
as standard output.
If the file exists output is appended to it,
by first seeking to the end-of-file.
Otherwise, the file is created.
.TP
\fB<<[ \- ]\fIword\fP
The shell input is read up to a line that is the same as
.IR word ,
or to an end-of-file.
The resulting document becomes
the standard input.
If any character of
.I word\^
is quoted, no interpretation
is placed upon the characters of the document.
Otherwise, parameter and command substitution occurs,
(unescaped)
.B \enew-line
is ignored,
and
.B \e
must be used to quote the characters
.BR \e ,
.BR $ ,
.BR ` ,
and the first character of
.IR word .
If
.B \-
is appended to
.BR <\h@-.3m@< ,
all leading tabs are stripped from
.I word\^
and from the document.
.TP
\fB<\h@-.1m@&\fIdigit\fP
Use the file associated with file descriptor
.I digit\^
as standard input.
Similarly for the standard output using 
.B >\h@-.1m@&\fIdigit\fP.
.TP
.B <\h@-.1m@&\h@-.1m@\-
The standard input is closed.
Similarly for the standard output using
.BR >\h@-.1m@&\h@-.1m@\- .
.PD
.PP
If any of the above is preceded by a digit,
the file descriptor which will be associated 
with the file is that specified by the digit,
instead of the default 0 or 1.
For example:
.EX
 ... 2>&1
.EE
.PP
This associates file descriptor 2
with the file currently associated with 
file descriptor 1.
.PP
The order in which redirections are specified is significant.
The shell evaluates redirections left-to-right.
For example:
.EX
 ... 1>xxx 2>&1
.EE
.PP
The first associates file descriptor 1 with file 
.IR xxx\^ .
It associates file descriptor 2 with the file associated with file
descriptor 1 (that is,
.IR xxx\^ ).
If the order of redirections were reversed,
file descriptor 2 would be associated 
with the terminal (assuming file descriptor 1 had been)
and file descriptor 
1 would be associated with file 
.IR xxx\^ .
.PP
If a command is followed by
.B &
the default standard input
for the command
is the empty file
/dev/null.
Otherwise, the environment for the execution of a command contains the
file descriptors of the invoking shell as modified by
input/output specifications.
.PP
Redirection of output is not allowed in the restricted shell.
.SS Environment
.NXR "sh5 command interpreter" "environment"
The environment
is a list of name-value pairs that is passed to
an executed program in the same way as a normal argument list.
For further information, see 
.MS environ 7 .
The shell interacts with the environment in several ways.
On invocation, the shell scans the environment
and creates a
parameter
for each name found,
giving it the corresponding value.
If the user modifies the value of any of these
parameters
or creates new parameters,
none of these affects the environment
unless the
.B export
command is used to bind the shell's
parameter
to the environment (see also 
.BR "set \-a" ).
A parameter may be removed from the environment
with the 
.BR unset
command.
The environment seen by any executed command is thus composed
of any unmodified name-value pairs originally inherited by the shell,
minus any pairs removed by
.BR unset ,
plus any modifications or additions,
all of which must be noted in
.B export
commands.
.PP
The environment for any simple command
may be augmented by prefixing it with one or more assignments to
parameters.
Thus:
.EX
TERM=450 cmd 				
(export TERM; TERM=450; cmd)
.EE
.PP
These are equivalent (as far as the execution of
.I cmd\^
is concerned).
.PP
If the
.B \-k
flag is set,
.I all\^
keyword arguments are placed in the environment,
even if they occur after the command name.
The following
first prints
.B "a=b c"
and
.BR c :
.EX
echo a=b c
set \-k
echo a=b c
.EE
.SS Signals
.NXR "sh5 command interpreter" "signals"
The \s-1INTERRUPT\s+1 and \s-1QUIT\s+1 signals for an invoked
command are ignored if the command is followed by
.BR & .
Otherwise signals have the values
inherited by the shell from its parent,
with the exception of signal 11.
For further information, see also
the
.B trap
command below.
.SS Execution
.NXR "sh5 command interpreter" "executing commands"
Each time a command is executed, the above substitutions are
carried out.
If the command name matches one of the 
.B Special Commands
listed below, it is executed in the shell process.
If the command name does not match a
.B Special Command,
but matches the name of a defined function, the function is executed 
in the shell process
(note how this differs from the execution of shell procedures).
The positional parameters
.BR $1 ,
.BR $2 ,
\&.\|.\|.\|.
are set to the arguments of the function.
If the command name matches neither a
.B Special Command
nor the name of a defined function,
a new process is created and an attempt is made to
execute the command via
.MS execve 2 .
.PP
The shell parameter
.B
.SM PATH
defines the search path for
the directory containing the command.
Alternative directory names are separated by
a colon
.RB ( : ).
The default path is
.B :/bin:/usr/bin
(specifying the current directory,
.BR /bin ,
and
.BR /usr/bin ,
in that order).
Note that the current directory is specified by a null path name,
which can appear immediately after the equal sign
or between the colon delimiters anywhere else in the path list.
If the command name contains a \fB/\fP the search path
is not used.
Such commands will not be executed by the restricted shell.
Otherwise, each directory in the path is
searched for an executable file.
If the file has execute permission but is not an
.B a.out
file,
it is assumed to be a file containing shell commands.
A sub-shell is spawned to read it.
A parenthesized command is also executed in
a sub-shell.
.PP
The location in the search path where a command was found is remembered by the
shell
(to help avoid unnecessary
.B exec
later).
If the command was found in a relative directory, its location must be 
re-determined whenever the current directory changes.
The shell forgets all remembered locations whenever the
.B 
.SM PATH
variable is changed or the
.B hash \-r
command is executed (see below).
.SS Special Commands
Input/output redirection is now permitted for these commands.
File descriptor 1 is the default output location.
.PP
.PD 0
.TP
.B :
No effect; the command does nothing.
A zero exit code is returned.
.br
.TP
.BI ".\| " file\^
Read and execute commands from
.I file\^
and return.
The search path
specified by
.B
.SM PATH
is used to find the directory containing
.IR file .
.TP
\fBbreak\fP [ \fIn\fP ]
.NXR "break command (System V)"
Exit from the enclosing \fBfor\fP or
.B while
loop, if any.
If
.I n\^
is specified break
.I n\^
levels.
.TP
\fBcontinue\fP [ \fIn\fP ]
.NXR "continue command (System V)"
Resume the next iteration of the enclosing
\fBfor\fP or
.B while
loop.
If
.I n\^
is specified resume at the
.IR n \-th
enclosing loop.
.TP
\fBcd\fP [ \fIarg\fP ]
.NXR "cd command (System V)"
Change the current directory to
.IR arg .
The shell
parameter
.B
.SM HOME
is the default
.IR arg .
The shell parameter
.B
.SM CDPATH
defines the search path for
the directory containing 
.IR arg .
Alternative directory names are separated by
a colon
.RB ( : ).
The default path is
.B <null>
(specifying the current directory).
Note that the current directory is specified by a null path name,
which can appear immediately after the equal sign
or between the colon delimiters anywhere else in the path list.
If 
.I arg
begins with a \fB/\fP the search path
is not used.
Otherwise, each directory in the path is
searched for
.IR arg .
The
.MS cd 1
command may not be executed by
.PN rsh5 .
.br
.ne 2.1v
.TP
\fBecho\fP [ \fIarg\fP... ]
.NXR "echo command (System V)"
Echo arguments. See
.MS echo 1sh5 
for usage and description.
.TP
\fBeval\fP [ \fIarg\fP... ]
.NXR "eval command (System V)"
The arguments are read as input
to the shell
and the resulting command(s) executed.
.TP
\fBexec\fP [ \fIarg\fP... ]
.NXR "exec command (System V)"
The command specified by
the arguments is executed in place of this shell
without creating a new process.
Input/output arguments may appear and, if no other
arguments are given, cause the shell
input/output to be modified.
.TP
\fBexit\fP [ \fIn\fP ] 
.NXR "exit command (System V)"
Causes a shell to exit
with the exit status specified by
.IR n .
If
.I n\^
is omitted the exit status is that of the last command executed
(an end-of-file will also cause the shell to exit.)
.TP
\fBexport\fP [ \fIname\fP... ]
.NXR "export command (System V)"
Each given
.I name 
is marked for automatic export to the environment
of subsequently-executed commands.
If no arguments are given, a list of all
names that are exported in this shell is printed.
Function names may 
.I not
be exported.
.TP
\fBhash\fP [ \fB\-r\fP ] [ \fIname\fP... ] 
.NXR "hash command (System V)"
For each 
.IR name\^ ,
the location in the search path of the command specified by 
.I name\^
is determined and remembered by the shell.
The 
.B \-r
option causes the shell to forget all remembered locations.
If no arguments are given, information about remembered commands is
presented.
\fIHits\fP is the number of times a command has been invoked by the shell process.
\fICost\fP is a measure of the work required to locate a
command in the search path.  There are certain situations 
which require that the stored location
of a command be recalculated.
Commands for which this will be done are indicated by an asterisk (\fB*\fR)
adjacent to the \fIhits\fR information.
\fICost\fR will be incremented when the recalculation is done.
.TP
\fBpwd\fP
.NXR "pwd command (System V)"
Print the current working directory.
For use and description, see 
.MS pwd 1 .
.TP
\fBread\fP [ \fIname\fP... ] 
.NXR "read command (System V)"
One line is read from the standard input and
the first
word is assigned to the first
.IR name ,
the second word
to the second
.IR name ,
etc., with leftover words assigned to the last
.IR name .
The return code is 0 unless an end-of-file is encountered.
.TP
\fBreadonly\fP [ \fIname\fP... ] 
.NXR "readonly command (System V)"
The given
.IR name s
are marked
.I readonly\^
and
the values of the these
.IR name s
may not be changed
by subsequent assignment.
If no arguments are given, a list
of all
.I readonly\^
names is printed.
.TP
\fBreturn\fP [ \fIn\fP ]
.NXR "return command (System V)"
Causes a function to exit with the return value specified by
.IR n .
If
.I n 
is omitted, the return status is that of the last command executed.
.TP
\fBset\fP [ \fB\-\-aefhkntuvx\fP [ \fIarg\fP... ] ] 
.NXR "set command (System V)"
.RS
.TP
.B \-a
Mark variables which are modified or created for export.
.TP
.B \-e
Exit immediately if a command
exits with a nonzero exit status.
.TP
.B \-f
Disable file name generation
.TP
.B \-h
Locate and remember function commands as functions are defined 
(function commands are normally located when the function is executed).
.TP
.B \-k
All keyword arguments are placed in the environment for a command,
not just those that precede the command name.
.TP
.B \-n
Read commands but do not execute them.
.TP
.B \-t
Exit after reading and executing one command.
.TP
.B \-u
Treat unset variables as an error when substituting.
.TP
.B \-v
Print shell input lines as they are read.
.TP
.B \-x
Print commands and their arguments as they are executed.
.TP
.B \-\-
Do not change any of the flags; useful in setting
.B $1
to
.BR \- .
.PP
Using
.B \+
rather than
.B \-
causes these flags to be turned off.
These flags can also be used upon invocation of the shell.
The current set of flags may be found in
.BR $\- .
The remaining arguments are positional
parameters and are assigned, in order, to
.BR $1 ,
.BR $2 ,
\&.\|.\|.\|.
If no arguments are given the values
of all names are printed.
.RE
.TP
\fBshift\fP [ \fIn\fP ] 
.NXR "shift command (System V)"
.br
The positional parameters from
.B $n+1
\&.\|.\|.
are renamed
.B $1
\&.\|.\|.\|.
If
.I n\^
is not given, it is assumed to be 1.
.TP
\fBtest\fP
.NXR "test command (System V)"
.br
Evaluate conditional expressions. 
For usage and description, see 
.MS test 1sh5 .
.TP
\fBtimes\fP
.NXR "times command (System V)"
.br
Print the accumulated user and system times for processes
run from the shell.
.TP
\fBtrap\fP [ \fIarg\fP ] [ \fIn\fP... ] 
.NXR "trap command (System V)"
The command
.I arg\^
is to be read and executed when the shell
receives signal(s)
.IR n .
Note that
.I arg\^
is scanned once when
the trap is set and once when the trap
is taken.
Trap commands are executed in order of signal number.
Any attempt to set a trap on a signal that
was ignored on entry to the current shell
is ineffective.
An attempt to trap on signal 11 (memory fault) produces an error.
If
.I arg\^
is absent all trap(s)
.I n\^
are reset
to their original values.
If
.I arg\^
is the null
string this signal is ignored by the shell and by the commands
it invokes.
If
.I n\^
is 0 the command
.I arg\^
is executed
on exit from the shell.
The
.B trap
command
with no arguments prints a list
of commands associated with each signal number.
.TP
\fBtype\fP [ \fIname\^\fP... ] 
.NXR "type command (System V)"
For each
.IR name ,
indicate how it would be interpreted if used as a command name.
.TP
\fBulimit\fP [ \fB\-fp\fP ] [ \fIn\fP ] 
.NXR "ulimit command (System V)"
imposes a size limit of
.I n\^
.RS
.TP
.B \-f
imposes a size limit of 
.I n
blocks on files written by child processes (files of any size may be read).
With no argument, the current limit is printed.
.TP
.B \-p
changes the pipe size to
.I n
(\s-1UNIX\s+1/\s-1RT\s+1 only).
.PP
If no option is given,
.B \-f
is assumed.
.RE
.TP
\fBumask\fP [ \fInnn\fP ] 
.NXR "umask command (System V)"
The user file-creation mask is set to
.I nnn\^.
For further information, see
.MS umask 2 .
If
.I nnn\^
is omitted, the current value of the mask is printed.
.TP
\fBunset\fP [ \fIname\fP... ] 
.NXR "unset command (System V)"
For each 
.IR name , 
remove the corresponding variable or function.
The variables 
\fB\s-1PATH\s+1\fP, \fB\s-1PS1\s+1\fP, \fB\s-1PS2\s+1\fP, \fB\s-1MAILCHECK\s+1\fP and \fB\s-1IFS\s+1\fP
cannot be unset.
.TP
\fBwait\fP [ \fIn\fP ] 
.NXR "wait command (System V)"
Wait for the specified process and report its termination status.
If
.I n\^
is not given all currently active child processes are waited for
and the return code is zero.
.PD
.PP
.SS Invocation
.NXR "sh5 command interpreter" "invoking"
If the shell is invoked through
.MS execve 2
and the first character of argument zero
is
.BR \- ,
commands are initially read from
.B /etc/profile
and from
.BR \s-1$HOME\s+1/.profile ,
if such files exist.
Thereafter, commands are read as described below, which
is also the case when the shell is invoked as
.BR /bin/sh5 .
The flags below are interpreted by the shell on invocation only. Note
that unless the 
.B \-c
or
.B \-s
flag is specified, the first argument is assumed to be the
name of a file containing commands, and the remaining
arguments are passed as positional parameters
to that command file:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 10
.BI \-c "\| string\^"
If the
.B \-c
flag is present
commands are read from
.IR string .
.TP
.B \-s
If the
.B \-s
flag is present or if no
arguments remain
commands are read from the standard input.
Any remaining arguments specify the positional parameters.
Shell output (except for 
.IR "Special Commands\^" )
is written to file descriptor 2.
.TP
.B \-i
If the
.B \-i
flag is present or
if the shell input and output are attached to a terminal,
this shell is
.IR interactive .
In this case \s-1TERMINATE\s+1 is ignored (so that \fBkill 0\fP
does not kill an interactive shell) and \s-1INTERRUPT\s+1 is caught and ignored
(so that
.B wait
is interruptible).
In all cases, \s-1QUIT\s+1 is ignored by the shell.
.TP
.B \-r
If the
.B \-r
flag is present the shell is a restricted shell.
.PD
.PP
The remaining flags and arguments are described under the
.B set
command above.
.SS Rsh5 Only
.NXR "rsh5 program" "restricted"
The
.PN rsh5
shell is used to set up login names and execution environments whose
capabilities are more controlled than those of the standard shell.
The actions of
.PN rsh5
are identical to those of
.PN sh5,
except that the following are disallowed:
.RS
.PD 0
.PP
changing directory, see
.MS cd 1,
.br
setting the value of
.SM
.BR $PATH\*S,
.br
specifying path or
command names containing
.BR / ,
.br
redirecting output
.RB ( >
and
.BR >> ).
.PD
.RE
.PP
The restrictions above are enforced
after \fB.profile\fP is interpreted.
.PP
When a command to be executed is found to be a shell procedure,
.PN rsh5
invokes
.PN sh5
to execute it.
Thus, it is possible to provide to the end-user shell procedures 
that have access to the full power of
the standard shell,
while imposing a limited menu of commands.
This scheme assumes that the end-user does not have write and
execute permissions in the same directory.
.PP
The net effect of these rules is that the writer of the
.B .profile
has complete control over user actions,
by performing guaranteed setup actions
and leaving the user in an appropriate directory
(probably
not
the login directory).
.PP
The system administrator often sets up a directory
of commands
(/usr/rbin )
that can be safely invoked by
.PN rsh5.
Some systems also provide a restricted editor,
.PN red ,
see
.MS ed 1.
.SH Exit Status
.NXR "sh5 command interpreter" "exit status"
Errors detected by the shell, such as syntax errors,
cause the shell
to return a nonzero exit status.
If the shell is being used noninteractively
execution of the shell file is abandoned.
Otherwise, the shell returns the exit status of
the last command executed (see also the
.B exit
command above).
.SH Restrictions
.NXR "sh5 command interpreter" "restricted"
If a command is executed, and a command with the same name is 
installed in a directory in the search path before the directory where the
original command was found, the shell will continue to 
.I exec\^
the original command.
Use the 
.B hash
command to correct this situation.
.PP
If you move the current directory or one above it, 
.B pwd\^
may not give the correct response.
Use the 
.PN cd\^
command with a full path name
to correct this situation.
.PP
If you startup a shell using 
.MS execve 2  
with an 'r' in the 
.I argv[0]
string, the System V shell goes into restricted mode.
.SH Files
/etc/profile
.br
\s-1$HOME\s+1/\fB.\fPprofile
.br
/tmp/sh\(**
.br
/dev/null
.SH See Also
cd(1), echo(1sh5),
login(1), printenv(1), pwd(1), sh(1), test(1sh5)
dup(2), execve(2), fork(2), pipe(2), 
ulimit(2), umask(2), wait(2), signal(3), a.out(5), environ(7) 
.NXE "sh5 command interpreter"
