.\" SCCSID: @(#)stty.1	2.5	8/24/87
.TH stty 1
.SH Name
stty \- set terminal options
.SH Syntax
.B stty
[\|\fIoption...\fR\|]
.SH Description
.NX R "stty command"
.NX R "Terminals" "setting input\/output characteristics"
The
.PN stty
command
sets or reports certain input/output characteristics of the current
output terminal.
Output from the 
.PN stty
program is sent to the diagnostic output (standard error).
The
.PN stty
command is used in two terminal environments.  The terminal
environment is determined by the setting of the terminal's
line discipline.  If the terminal's line discipline is set to
anything other than TERMIODISC (termio line discipline), refer
to the sections entitled
"Non-Termio Operation" and "Non-Termio Options."
If your terminal 
line is set to the termio line discipline, refer to the
sections entitled "Termio Operation" and "Termio Options."
.br
.sp
Note that you can use the command
.PN stty 
.PN disc
to find out the current line discipline of your terminal.

.SH Non-termio Operation
With no argument, the
.PN stty
command reports the speed of the terminal and the
settings of the options that are different from their defaults.
The following arguments report the current settings of the terminal:
.IP all 15
Reports all normally used non-termio option settings. 
.IP everything
Reports all non-termio option settings.
.sp
.SH Non-Termio Options
The option strings 
for terminals that are not using the termio line discipline are
selected from the following set:
.sp
.TP  15
.B even 
Allows even parity input.
.TP 
.B \-even 
Disallows even parity input.
.TP 
.B odd 
Allows odd parity input.
.TP 
.B \-odd 
Disallows odd parity input.
.TP 
.B raw 
Specifies raw mode input with
no input processing (for example, erase, kill, interrupt);
parity bit passed back.
.TP 
.B \-raw 
Negates raw mode.
.TP
.B cooked 
Negates raw mode.
.TP
.B cbreak
Makes each character available to 
.MS read 2 
as it is received; all processing other than erase
and kill processing is performed.
.TP
.B \-cbreak
Makes characters available to 
.I read
only when new line is received.
.TP
.B \-nl 
Allows carriage return for new-line,
and outputs CR-LF for carriage return or new-line.
.TP
.B nl 
Accepts only new-line to end lines.
.TP
.B echo 
Echoes back every character typed.
.TP
.B \-echo 
Does not echo characters.
.TP
.B lcase 
Maps upper case to lower case.
.TP
.B \-lcase 
Does not map case.
.TP
.B tandem
Enables flow control.  The system sends out the stop character when
its internal queue is in danger of overflowing on input; it sends the
start character when it is ready to accept further input.
.TP
.B \-tandem
Disables flow control.
.TP
.B \-tabs 
Replaces tabs with spaces when printing.
.TP
.B tabs 
Preserves tabs.  This option may cause unpredictable behavior
if unprintable characters, such as escape sequences, are
sent to the terminal.
.TP
.B ek 
Sets erase and kill characters to the pound sign (#) and
at sign (@) respectively.
.TP
.B termiod
Sets line discipline to termio line discipline.  Note that once the line
discipline has been changed to TERMIODISC, 
the termio options to 
.PN stty
should be used.
.TP
.B disc
Reports the current line discipline.
.TP
.B old
Sets line discipline to the old line discipline (OTTDISC).
.sp
.PP
The following commands take a character argument \fIc\fR.
You may specify u or undef instead of \fIc\fR to leave the value
undefined.  The two character sequence of 
.CT x
is also
interpreted as a control character, with 
.CT ?
representing delete.
.TP 15
.BI erase \ c\fR
Sets the erase character to
.I c.
The default is the pound sign (#), but it is often reset to 
<CTRL/H>.
.TP
.BI kill \ c\fR
Sets the kill character to
.I c.
The default is the at sign (@), but it is often reset to 
<CTRL/U>.
.TP
.BI intr \ c\fR
Sets the interrupt character to
.I c.
The default is DEL or
.CT ? 
but it is often reset to <CTRL/C>.
.TP
.BI quit \ c\fR
Sets the quit character to
.I c.
The default is <CTRL/\\>.
.TP
.BI start \ c\fR
Sets the start character to
.I c.
The default is <CTRL/Q>.
.TP
.BI stop \ c\fR
Sets the stop character to
.I c.
The default is <CTRL/S>.
.TP
.BI eof \ c\fR
Sets the end of file character to
.I c.
The default is <CTRL/S>.
.TP
.BI brk \ c\fR
Sets the break character to
.I c.
The default is undefined.
This character causes a wakeup.
.TP
.B  cr0 cr1 cr2 cr3
Selects style of delay for carriage return; see
.MS ioctl 2
for more information.
.TP
.B  nl0 nl1 nl2 nl3
Selects style of delay for linefeed.
.TP
.B  tab0 tab1 tab2 
Selects style of delay for tab.
.TP
.B  ff0 ff1
Selects style of delay for form feed.
.TP
.B bs0 bs1
Selects style of delay for backspace.
.TP
.B dec
Sets all modes suitable for Digital Equipment Corporation operating systems
users.  This command sets erase to
<CTRL/?>, kill to <CTRL/U>, and interrupt to <CTRL/C>.
It also sets the decctlq and newcrt options.
.TP
.B size
Prints the display size.  The format is (rows) (columns).
.TP
.B rows i
Sets the number of rows in the display to
.I i.
.TP
.B cols i
Sets the number of columns in the display to
.I i.
.TP
.B excl
Sets line to exclusive use.
.TP
.B \-excl
Clears exclusive use status.
.TP
.B 0 
Hangs up phone line immediately.
.TP
.B  "50 75 110 134 150 200 300 600 1200 1800 2400 4800 9600 exta extb"
Sets terminal baud rate to the number given, if possible.
.sp
.PP
The following are unsupported terminal devices:
.TP 15
.B tty33 
Sets all modes suitable for the
Teletype Corporation Model 33 terminal.
.TP
.B tty37 
Sets all modes suitable for the
Teletype Corporation Model 37 terminal.
.TP
.B vt05 
Sets all modes suitable for Digital Equipment Corporation VT05 terminal.
.TP
.B tn300 
Sets all modes suitable for a General Electric TermiNet 300.
.TP
.B ti700 
Sets all modes suitable for Texas Instruments 700 series terminal.
.TP
.B tek 
Sets all modes suitable for Tektronix 4014 terminal.
.sp
.PP
A teletype driver that supports the job control processing of
.MS csh 1 
and has more functionality than the basic driver is
fully described in 
.MS tty 4 .
The following options apply only to it:
.sp
.TP 15
.B new
Uses new driver (switching flushes typeahead).
Sets line discipline to NTTYDISC.
.TP
.B crt
Sets options for a CRT (crtbs, ctlecho and, if greater
than or equal to 1200 baud, it sets
crterase and crtkill.)
.TP
.B crtbs
Echoes backspaces on erase characters.
.TP
.B prterase
Echoes characters that have been erased.
.TP
.B crterase
Wipes out erased characters with the following combination
of keystrokes:  backspace-space-backspace.
.TP
.B \-crterase
Leaves characters visible that have been erased.  Invoke
this option by using the
backstroke key alone.
.TP
.B crtkill
Wipes out input.  Similar to
.B crterase
in how it works.
.TP
.B \-crtkill
Echoes the line kill character and a new line on line kill.
.TP
.B ctlecho
Echoes control characters as a circumflex followed by the character.
For example, 
.CT X
echoes as 
.B ^X.  
Type two backspaces following the
EOT character (<CTRL/D>).
.TP
.B \-ctlecho
Echoes control characters as themselves; in cooked mode EOT (<CTRL/D>)
is not echoed.
.TP
.B decctlq
Enables a start character (normally <CTRL/Q>) to restart
output when it has been suspended.
.TP
.B \-decctlq
Enables any character that you type to restart output when it
has been suspended.
The start character restarts output without providing any input.
This is the default.
.TP
.B noflsh
Suppresses flushing of input and output queues upon receipt of 
an interrupt signal.
.TP
.B \-noflsh
Flushes input and output queues upon receipt of interrupt signal.
.TP
.B tostop
Stops background jobs if they attempt terminal output.
.TP
.B \-tostop
Allows output from background jobs to the terminal.
.TP
.B tilde
Converts the tilde (\~) to a backslash (\\) on output.
.TP
.B \-tilde
Suppresses conversion of the tilde (\~) to a backslash (\\).
.TP
.B flusho
Discards output usually because the user hit a
.CT O
(internal state bit).
.TP
.B \-flusho
Output is not discarded.
.TP
.B pendin
Resubmits input that is pending after a switch from cbreak to cooked.
Activated when a read becomes pending or more input arrives
(internal state bit).
.TP
.B \-pendin
Specifies that input is not pending.
.TP
.B litout
Sends output characters without any processing.
.TP
.B \-litout
Does normal output processing, such as inserting delays.
.TP
.B autoflow
Causes the terminal multiplexer to automatically respond to start and stop
characters.  This functionality is only provided if the stop character is 
.CT S
and the start character is <CTRL/Q>.
.TP
.B \-autoflow
Uses software controlled flow control.
.TP
.B nohang
Does not send a hangup signal if the carrier drops.
Note that the 
.B nohang
option should be used carefully.  For example, suppose that you have
the
.PN nohang
option in your .login file and are logged in over a modem.  If the
carrier drops, the next call in on this line gets your active
shell.
.TP
.B \-nohang
Sends a hangup signal to control process group when carrier drops.
.TP
.B pass8
Allows full eight bit ascii characters in input and output.
.TP
.B \-pass8
Strips characters to seven bits, thus disallowing the use of eight bit
ascii characters.
.sp
.PP
The following special characters are applicable only 
when the line discipline is set to NTTYDISC.  They
are not normally changed.  The 
.PN stty
.B new
option sets the line discipline to NTTYDISC.
.TP 15
.BI susp \ c\fR
Sets the suspend process character to \fIc\fR.
The default is <CTRL/Z>.
.TP
.BI dsusp \ c\fR
Sets the delayed suspend process character to \fIc\fR.
The default is <CTRL/Y>.
.TP
.BI rprnt \ c\fR
Sets the reprint line character to \fIc\fR.
The default is <CTRL/R>.
.TP
.BI flush \ c\fR
Sets the flush output character to \fIc\fR.
The default is <CTRL/O>.
.TP
.BI werase \ c\fR
Sets the word erase character to \fIc\fR.
The default is <CTRL/W>.
.TP
.BI lnext \ c\fR
Sets the literal next character to \fIc\fR.
The default is <CTRL/V>.
.TP
.BI quote \ c\fR
Sets the quote character (for erase and kill) to \fIc\fR.
The default is <CTRL/\\>.
.sp
.SH Termio Operation
This section describes the arguments and options that are used when
the terminal line is set to the termio line discipline (TERMIODISC).  The
termio line discipline is intended for programs that use either IEEE P1003
termios, or System Five style termio.  Unless noted otherwise, all options in
this section are applicable to both IEEE P1003 termios or System Five termio.
.PP
With no arguments, 
.B stty
reports the speed of the terminal and the
settings of certain options.
.sp
.TP 5
.B \-a
Reports option settings relevant to System Five termios.
.TP
.B \-p
Reports option settings relevant to IEEE POSIX termios.
.PP
For more information about the modes listed in the first five groups below
refer to 
.MS termio 4
and
.MS termios 4 . 
.sp
.SH Termio Options
For terminals that are using the termio line discipline,
select option strings 
from the following set:
.SS Control Modes
.TP 18
.BR parenb " (" \-parenb )
Enables (disables) parity generation and detection.
.TP
.BR parodd " (" \-parodd )
Selects odd (even) parity.
.TP
.B "cs5 cs6 cs7 cs8"
Select character size.
.TP
.B 0
Hangs up phone line immediately.
.TP
.B "50 75 110 134 150 200 300 600 1200 1800 2400 4800 9600 exta extb"
Sets terminal baud rate to the number given, if possible.
(All speeds are not supported by all hardware interfaces.)
.TP 18
.BR hupcl " (" \-hupcl )
Sends (does not send) hangup signal on last close of terminal line.
.TP
.BR cstopb " (" \-cstopb )
Uses two (one) stop bits per character.
.TP
.BR cread " (" \-cread )
Enables (disables) the receiver.
.TP
.BR clocal " (" \-clocal )
Assumes a line without (with) modem control.
.TP
.BR loblk " (" \-loblk )
Blocks (does not block) output from a non-current layer.
(System Five termio only)
.TP
.BR autoflow " (" \-autoflow )
Line operates with (without) hardware monitored flow control. (POSIX only)
.sp
.SS Input Modes
.TP 18
.BR ignbrk " (" \-ignbrk )
Ignores (does not ignore) break on input.
.TP
.BR brkint " (" \-brkint )
Signals (does not signal) \s-1INTR\s+1 on break.
.TP
.BR ignpar " (" \-ignpar )
Ignores (does not ignore) parity errors.
.TP
.BR parmrk " (" \-parmrk )
Marks (does not mark) parity errors.
.TP
.BR inpck " (" \-inpck )
Enables (disables) input parity checking.
.TP
.BR istrip " (" \-istrip )
Strips (does not strip) input characters to seven bits.
.TP
.BR inlcr " (" \-inlcr )
Maps (does not map) \s-1NL\s+1 to \s-1CR\s+1 on input.
.TP
.BR igncr " (" \-igncr )
Ignores (does not ignore) \s-1CR\s+1 on input.
.TP
.BR icrnl " (" \-icrnl )
Maps (does not map) \s-1CR\s+1 to \s-1NL\s+1 on input.
.TP
.BR iuclc " (" \-iuclc )
Maps (does not map) upper-case alphabetics to lower case on input.
.TP
.BR ixon " (" \-ixon )
Enables (disables) \s-1START\s+1/\s-1STOP\s+1
output control.  Output is stopped by sending
an \s-1ASCII DC3\s+1 and started by sending an \s-1ASCII DC1\s+1.
.TP
.BR ixany " (" \-ixany )
Allows any character (only \s-1DC1\s+1) to restart output.
.TP
.BR ixoff " (" \-ixoff )
Requests that the system send (not send) \s-1START/STOP\s+1 characters
when the input queue is nearly empty/full.
.sp
.SS Output Modes
.TP
.BR opost " (" \-opost )
Post-processes output (does not post-process output; ignores
all other output modes).
.TP
.BR olcuc " (" \-olcuc )
Maps (does not map) lower-case alphabetics to upper case on output.
.TP
.BR onlcr " (" \-onlcr )
Maps (does not map) \s-1NL\s+1 to \s-1CR-NL\s+1 on output.
.TP
.BR ocrnl " (" \-ocrnl )
Maps (does not map) \s-1CR\s+1 to \s-1NL\s+1 on output.
.TP
.BR onocr " (" \-onocr )
Does not output (outputs) \s-1CR\s+1s at column zero.
.TP
.BR onlret " (" \-onlret )
Performs (does not perform) the \s-1CR\s+1 function 
on the terminal \s-1NL\s+1.
.TP
.BR ofill " (" \-ofill )
Uses fill characters (uses timing) for delays.
.TP
.BR ofdel " (" \-ofdel )
Specifies fill characters as \s-1DEL\s+1s (\s-1NUL\s+1s).
.TP
.B "cr0 cr1 cr2 cr3"
Selects style of delay for carriage returns.
.TP
.B "nl0 nl1"
Selects style of delay for line-feeds.
.TP
.B "tab0 tab1 tab2 tab3"
Selects style of delay for horizontal tabs.
.TP
.B "bs0 bs1"
Selects style of delay for backspaces.
.TP
.B "ff0 ff1"
Selects style of delay for form-feeds.
.TP
.B "vt0 vt1"
Selects style of delay for vertical tabs. 
.sp
.SS Local Modes
.TP 18
.BR isig " (" \-isig )
Enables (disables) the checking of characters against the special control
characters \s-1INTR\s+1 and \s-1QUIT\s+1.
.TP
.BR icanon " (" \-icanon )
Enables (disables) canonical input (\s-1ERASE\s+1 and \s-1KILL\s+1 processing).
.TP
.BR xcase " (" \-xcase )
Presents canonical (unprocessed) upper/lower-case.
.TP
.BR echo " (" \-echo )
Echoes (does not echo) every character typed.
.TP
.BR echoe " (" \-echoe )
Echoes (does not echo) \s-1ERASE\s+1 character as
a backspace-space-backspace string.  Note that this mode erases the
\s-1ERASE\s+1ed character on many \s-1CRT\s+1 terminals;
however, it does
.I not\^
keep track of column position and, as a result, may be confusing
on escaped characters, tabs, and backspaces.
.TP
.BR echok " (" \-echok )
Echoes (does not echo) \s-1NL\s+1 after \s-1KILL\s+1 character.
.TP
.BR echonl " (" \-echonl )
Echoes (does not echo) \s-1NL\s+1.
.TP
.BR noflsh " (" \-noflsh )
Disables (enables) flush after \s-1INTR\s+1 or \s-1QUIT\s+1.
.TP
.BR ctlech " (" \-ctlech )
Echoes (echo control characters unchanged) control characters as ^\fIx\fR
and delete as ^?. (POSIX only)
.TP
.BR prtera " (" \-prtera )
Echoes (does not echo) erased characters enclosed 
within back and forward slashes (\\ /) for printing 
terminals.  (POSIX only)
.TP
.BR crtera " (" \-crtera )
Wipes out (simply backspace) erased characters with 
backspace-space-backspace.
(POSIX only)
.TP
.BR crtkil " (" \-crtkil )
Wipes out line (kill character and newline) with backspace-space-backspace.
(POSIX ONLY)
.sp
.SS Control Assignments
.TP 18
.I "control-character c"
Sets
.I control-character
to
.IR c ,
where
.I control-character
is
.BR erase ", " kill ", " intr ,
.BR quit ", " eof ", " eol ,
.BR min ", or " time
.BR ( min " and " time
are used with
.BR \-icanon ".
.PP
The following control characters are applicable to POSIX mode only:
.BR susp ", " dsusp ", " rprnt ,
.BR flush ", " werase ", " lnext ", 
.BR quote.
.PP
If
.I c\^
is preceded by a circumflex
.RB ( ^ ),
then the value used is the corresponding 
.B CTRL 
character (for example, ^d is a 
.B CTRL-d );
^? is interpreted as DEL and ^\-  is interpreted as undefined.
.PP
The
.B new
option
sets the line discipline to NTTYDISC.  Note that this changes the line 
discipline to be a non-termio line discipline.  Once this has been done
the
.PN stty
options described in the non-termio section should be used.
.sp
.SS Combination Modes
.TP 18
.BR evenp "\ or\ " parity
Enables
.BR parenb " and " cs7 .
.TP
.B oddp
Enables 
.BR parenb ", " cs7 ", and " parodd .
.TP
.BR \-parity ", " \-evenp ", or " \-oddp
Disables
.BR parenb ,
and set
.BR cs8 .
.TP
.BR nl " (" \-nl )
Unsets (sets)
.BR icrnl ", " onlcr .
In addition
.B \-nl
unsets
.BR inlcr ", " igncr ", "
.BR ocrnl ", and " onlret .
.TP
.BR lcase " (" \-lcase )
Sets (unsets)
.BR xcase ", " iuclc ", and " olcuc .
.TP
.BR \s-1LCASE\s+1 " (" \-\s-1LCASE\s+1 )
Sets (unsets)
.BR xcase ", " iuclc ", and " olcuc .
.TP
.BR tabs " (" \-tabs "\ or\ " tab3 )
Preserves (expands to spaces) tabs when printing.
.TP
.B ek
Resets \s-1ERASE\s+1 and \s-1KILL\s+1 characters back to normal
.B #
and
.BR @ .
.TP
.B sane
Resets all modes to some reasonable values.
.SH See Also
ioctl(2), tabs(1), tset(1), tty(4), termio(4), termios(4)
