.\" SCCSID: @(#)style.1	8.1	9/11/90
.TH style 1 
.SH Name
style \- analyze surface characteristics of a document
.SH Syntax
.B style
[\fB\-ml\fR] [\fB\-mm\fR] [\fB\-a\fR] [\fB\-e\fR] [\fB\-l\fI num\fR\|] 
[\fB\-r\fI num\fR\|] [\fB\-p\fR] [\fB\-P\fR] \fIfile...\fR
.PP
.SH Description
.NXR "style program"
.NXR "readability" "analyzing"
.NXR "passive verb" "finding"
.NXA "style program" "diction program"
The
.PN style
command
analyzes the surface characteristics of the writing style
of a document.
It reports on readability, sentence length and
structure, word length and usage, verb type, and sentence openers.
Because
.PN style
runs
.PN deroff
before looking at the text, formatting
header files should be included as part of the input.
The default macro package
.B \-ms
may be overridden with the flag
.B \-mm.
The flag
.BR \-ml ,
which causes 
.PN deroff
to skip lists, should be used if the document contains many lists of
non-sentences.
The other options are used to locate sentences with certain characteristics.
.SH Options
.IP \fB\-a\fR 0.3i
Displays all sentences with their length and readability index.
.IP \fB\-e\fR 0.3i
Displays all sentences that begin with an expletive.
.IP "\fB\-\|l\fI num\fR" 0.3i
Displays all sentences longer than
.IR num .
.IP \fB\-ml\fR 0.3i
Skips lists in document.
.IP \fB\-mm\fR 0.3i
Overrides the default macro package
.B \-ms.
.IP \fB\-P\fR 0.3i
Displays parts of speech of the words in the document.
.IP \fB\-p\fR 0.3i
Displays all sentences that contain a passive verb.
.IP "\fB\-\|r\fI num\fR" 0.3i
Displays all sentences whose readability index is greater than
.IR num .
.SH Restrictions
Use of non-standard formatting macros may cause
incorrect sentence breaks.
.SH See Also
deroff(1), diction(1)
