.\" SCCSID: @(#)sysline.1	8.1	9/11/90
." $Header: /usr/src/ucb/sysline/RCS/sysline.1,v 1.2 83/07/31 23:46:35 layer Exp $
.TH sysline 1 "" "" Unsupported
.SH Name
sysline \- display system status on status line of a terminal
.SH Syntax
.B sysline
[
.B \-bcdehDilmpqrsj
] [
.B \-H\ 
.I remote
] [
.B +N
]
.SH Description
.NX R "sysline command"
.NX R "System status" "displaying"
The
.PN sysline
command runs in the background and periodically displays system status 
information on the status line of the terminal.
Not all terminals contain a status line.
Those that do include the h19, concept 108, Ann Arbor Ambassador, vt100,
Televideo 925/950 and Freedom 100.
If no options are given,
.PN sysline
displays the time of day, the current load average, the change in load
average in the last 5 minutes, the number of users (followed by a `u'),
the number of runnable  process (followed by a `r')(VAX only), the number
of suspended processes (followed by a `s')(VAX only), 
and the users who have logged on and off since the last status report.
Finally, if new mail has arrived, a summary of it is printed.
If there is unread mail in your mailbox, an asterisk will appear after the
display of the number of users.
The display is normally in reverse video (if your terminal supports
this in the status line) and is right justified to reduce distraction.
Every fifth display is done in normal video to give the screen a chance
to rest.
.PP
If you have a file named 
.PN \&.who 
in your home directory, then 
.PN sysline 
prints the contents of that file first.  One common use of this 
feature is to alias chdir, pushd, and popd  to place the current directory 
stack in 
.PN ~/.who 
after it changes the new directory.
.SH Options
.TP 12
.B \-b
Beep once every half hour and twice every hour, just like those obnoxious
watches you keep hearing.
.TP
.B \-c
Clear the status line for 5 seconds before each redisplay.
.TP
.B \-d
Debug mode -- print status line data in human readable format.
.TP
.B \-D
Print out the current day/date before the time.
.TP
.B \-e
Print out only the information.  Do not print out the control commands
necessary to put the information on the bottom line.  This option is
useful for putting the output of
.PN sysline
onto the mode line of an emacs window.
.TP
.B \-H \fIremote\fP
Print the load average on the remote host \fIremote\fP (VAX only).
If the host is down, or is not sending out \fIrwhod\fP packets, then
the down time is printed instead.
.TP
.B \-h
Print out the host machine's name after the time (VAX only).
.TP
.B \-l
Don't print the names of people who log in and out.
.TP
.B \-m
Don't check for mail. 
.TP
.B \-p
Don't report the number of processes which are runnable and suspended.
.TP
.B \-r
Don't display in reverse video.
.TP
.B \+N
Update the status line every N seconds. The default is 60 seconds.
.TP
.B \-q
Don't print out diagnostic messages if something goes wrong when starting up.
.TP
.B \-i
Print out the process id of the
.PN sysline
process onto standard output upon startup.
With this information you can send the alarm signal to the
.PN sysline
process to cause it to update immediately.  The
.PN sysline
command writes to the standard error, so you can redirect the standard
output into a file to catch the process id.
.TP
.B \-s
Print "short" form of line by left-justifying.  No
.I iff
escapes are allowed in the status line.
Some terminals (the Televideos and Freedom 100 for example)
do not allow cursor movement (or other "intelligent" operations)
in the status line.  For these terminals,
.PN sysline
normally uses blanks to cause right-justification.
This flag will disable the adding of the blanks.
.TP
.B \-j
Force 
.PN sysline 
output to be left-justified, even on terminals capable of
cursor movement on the status line.
.PP
If you have a file .syslinelock in your home directory, then
.PN sysline
will not update its statistics and write on your screen; it will just go to
sleep for a minute.  This is useful if you want to momentarily disable
.PN sysline.
Note that it may take a few seconds from the time the lock file
is created until you are guaranteed that
.PN sysline
will not write on the screen.
In order to use 
.PN sysline 
on a VT100 terminal, either of the following
termcap entries should be used to specify terminal attributes:
.TP 20
vt100-s
Creates a top-of-screen status line.
.TP 20
vt100-s-bot
Creates a bottom of screen status line.
.SH Restrictions
If you interrupt the display, then you may find your cursor missing or 
stuck on the status line.  The best thing to do is reset your terminal.
If there is too much output for one line, the excess is thrown away.
.SH Files
.TP 25
/etc/utmp
Names of people who are logged in.
.TP
/dev/kmem
Process table (VAX only).
.TP
/usr/spool/rwho/whod.*
Who/uptime information for remote hosts (VAX only).
.TP
${HOME}/.who
Information to print on bottom line.
.TP
${HOME}/.syslinelock
When the .syslinelock file exists, 
.PN sysline 
will not print.
