.TH tarsets 1
.SH Name
tarsets \- subset kitting command file generator
.SH Syntax
.B /usr/sys/dist/tarsets 
[
.B \-d
]
.I pathname
.SH Arguments
.I pathname
.PP
Specify the root directory for the file hierarchy containing
the files to be kitted in the subset.
.SH Description
.NX R "tarsets command"
.NX R "Software kits" "producing"
The
.PN tarsets
command reads subset inventory records from
standard input and writes a command procedure to standard output.
This command procedure contains the commands required to create
subset images for the subset described in the input.
.PP
The
.PN tarsets
command is used by the
.PN kits
utility to produce software kits for use
with the
.PN setld
utility.
.PP
All error diagnostics are written to the file
.I stderr
in the current directory.
.SH Options
.TP
.B \-d
Enable debugging. Debug trace diagnostics are written to
.I ts.dbg
in the current directory.
.SH Restrictions
The output command procedure produces multiple tar files.
Each tar file has a goal size of 400Kb. This is an anachronism
from the days of software distribution on RX50 diskettes.
The command procedure is modified automatically to produce a
single subset image when
.PN tarsets
is called from the
.PN kits
utility.
.SH Return Values
The exit status from the
.PN tarsets
command is zero unless a hard link referenced in the input
inventory cannot be found in the input inventory, in which case
the status is 1.
.SH Diagnostics
Invalid Record on line \fIn\fR
.RS
The input record on line
.I n
is not in subset inventory format.
.RE
.PP
\fIpath1\fR -> \fIpath2\fR link reference unresolved.
.RS
The input record for
.I path1
contains a pointer to
.I path2
in the referent field and
.I path2
does not appear in the inventory. This indicates that
.I path2
was deleted from the inventory after being created
by the
.I invcutter
command.
.RE
.PP
Warning: file \fIfilename\fR is \fIn\fR blocks too large for diskette
.RS
This is an obsolete message. It can be ignored.
.RE
.PP
Writing Oversized File Volume...
.RS
This is an obsolete message. It can be ignored.
.RE
.PP
\fIi\fR Blocks, \fIj\fR Chars on Volume \fIk\fR
.RS
This is an informational message. The number
.I j
is the number of characters in the command written
to the output to produce volume
.I k.
.RE
.SH Files
.TP
stderr
Diagnostic output.
.TP
ts.dbg
Debug diagnostic output.
.SH See Also
invcutter(1), kits(1), stl_inv(5), setld(8)
.br
\fIGuide to Preparing Software for Distribution on ULTRIX Systems\fP
