.TH tcpdump 1 "" "" Unsupported
.SH Name
tcpdump \- dump traffic on a network
.SH Syntax
.B /usr/etc/tcpdump
[
.B \-deflnNOpqStvx
] [
.B \-c
.I count
] [
.B \-F
.I file
][
.B \-i
.I interface
]
.br
.ti +8
[
.B \-r
.I file
]
[
.B \-s
.I snaplen
]
.br
.ti +8
[
.B \-w
.I file
]
.I expression
.SH Description
.NXR "tcpdump command"
The 
.PN tcpdump
command prints out the headers of packets on a network interface
that match the boolean \fIexpression\fP.
.B Under SunOS:
You must be root to invoke 
.PN tcpdump
or it must be installed setuid to root.
.B Under ULTRIX:
Any user can invoke 
.PN tcpdump
once the super-user has enabled promiscuous-mode operation using
.MS pfconfig 8c .
.B Under BSD:
Access is controlled by the permissions on 
.PN /dev/bpf \fIn\fR,
where \fIn\fP is the unit number of the device.
.SH Options
.TP
.B \-c
Exits after receiving \fIcount\fP packets.
.TP
.B \-d
Dumps the compiled packet-matching code to standard output and then stops.
.TP
.B \-e
Prints the link-level header on each dump line.
.TP
.B \-f
Prints `foreign' internet addresses numerically rather than symbolically
(this option is intended to get around serious problems in
Sun's Yellow Pages server \(em it usually hangs when translating non-local
internet numbers).
.TP
.B \-F
Uses \fIfile\fP as input for the filter expression.
Any additional expression given on the command line is ignored.
.TP
.B \-i
Listens on \fIinterface\fP.
If unspecified, 
.PN tcpdump
searches the system interface list for the
lowest numbered, configured interface that is up (excluding loopback).
.PP
Ties are broken by choosing the earliest match.
.TP
.B \-l
Makes stdout line buffered.  Useful if you want to see the data
while capturing it.  For example,
.br
``tcpdump\ \ \-l\ \ |\ \ tee dat'' or
``tcpdump\ \ \-l \ \ > dat\ \ &\ \ tail\ \ \-f\ \ dat''
.TP
.B \-n
Suppresses conversion of addresses (for example, host addresses, port numbers, 
etc.) to names.
.TP
.B \-N
Suppresses printing domain name qualification of host names.  For example,
if you specify this flag,
.PN tcpdump
prints ``nic''
instead of ``nic.ddn.mil''.
.TP
.B \-O
Do not run the packet-matching code optimizer.  This is useful only
if you suspect a bug in the optimizer.
.TP
.B \-p
Do not put the interface
into promiscuous mode.  Note that the interface might be in promiscuous
for some other reason; therefore, the
.PN \-p 
flag cannot be used as an abbreviation for
`ether host {localhost} or broadcast'.
.TP
.B \-q
Quiet mode.  Prints less protocol information so output
lines are shorter.
.TP
.B \-r
Reads packets from \fIfile\fR (which was created with the \-w option).
Standard input is used if \fIfile\fR is ``-''.
.TP
.B \-s
Use \fIsnaplen\fP bytes of data from each packet rather than the
default of 68 (with NIT, the minimum is actually 96).
68 bytes is adequate for IP, ICMP, TCP
and UDP but may truncate protocol information from name server and NFS
packets (see below).  Packets truncated because of a limited snapshot
are indicated in the output with ``[|]''.
Note that taking larger snapshots both increases
the amount of time it takes to process packets and, effectively,
decreases the amount of packet buffering.  This may cause packets to be
lost.  You should limit \fIsnaplen\fP to the smallest number that will
capture the protocol information you are interested in.
.TP
.B \-S
Prints absolute, rather than relative, TCP sequence numbers.
.TP
.B \-t
Do not print a timestamp on each dump line.
.TP
.B \-v
(Slightly more) verbose output.  For example, the time to live
and type of service information in an IP packet are printed.
.TP
.B \-w
Writes the raw packets to \fIfile\fR rather than parsing and printing 
them out.  They can later be printed with the \-r option.
Standard output is used if \fIfile\fR is ``-''.
.TP
.B \-x
Prints each packet (minus its link level header) in hexidecimal.
The smaller of the entire packet or
.I snaplen
bytes are printed.
.IP "\fI expression\fP"
.RS
Selects which packets are dumped.  If no \fIexpression\fP
is given, all packets on the net are dumped.  Otherwise,
only packets for which \fIexpression\fP is `true' are dumped.
.PP
The \fIexpression\fP consists of one or more
.I primitives.
Primitives usually consist of an
.I id
(name or number) preceded by one or more qualifiers.  There are three
different kinds of qualifiers:
.IP \fItype\fP
Say what kind of thing the id name or number refers to.
Possible types are
.BR host ,
.B net
and
.BR port .
For example, `host foo', `net 128.3', `port 20'.  If there is no type
qualifier,
.B host
is assumed.
.IP \fIdir\fP
Specify a particular transfer direction to and/or from
.I id.
Possible directions are
.BR src ,
.BR dst ,
.B "src or dst"
and
.BR "src and dst" .
For example, `src foo', `dst net 128.3', `src or dst port ftp-data'.  If
there is no dir qualifier,
.B "src or dst"
is assumed.
.IP \fIproto\fP
Restrict the match to a particular protocol.  Possible
protos are:
.BR ether ,
.BR ip ,
.BR arp ,
.BR rarp ,
.B tcp
and
.BR udp .
For example, `ether src foo', `arp net 128.3', `tcp port 21'.  If there is
no proto qualifier, all protocols consistent with the type are
assumed.  For example, `src foo' means `(ip or arp or rarp) src foo'
(except the latter is not legal syntax), `net bar' means `(ip or
arp or rarp) net bar' and `port 53' means `(tcp or udp) port 53'.
.RE
.PP
In addition to the above, there are some special `primitive' keywords
that do not follow the pattern:
.BR gateway ,
.BR broadcast ,
.BR less ,
.B greater
and arithmetic expressions.  All of these are described below.
.PP
More complex filter expressions are built up by using the words
.BR and ,
.B or
and
.B not
to combine primitives.  For example, `host foo and not port ftp and 
not port ftp-data'.
To save typing, identical qualifier lists can be omitted.  For example,
`tcp dst port ftp or ftp-data or domain' is exactly the same as
`tcp dst port ftp or tcp dst port ftp-data or tcp dst port domain'.
.PP
Allowable primitives are:
.IP "\fBdst host \fIhost\fR"
True if the IP destination field of the packet is \fIhost\fP,
which may be either an address or a name.
.IP "\fBsrc host \fIhost\fR"
True if the IP source field of the packet is \fIhost\fP.
.IP "\fBhost \fIhost\fP
True if either the IP source or destination of the packet is \fIhost\fP.
Any of the above host expressions can be prepended with the keywords,
\fBip\fP, \fBarp\fP, or \fBrarp\fP as in:
.in +.5i
.nf
\fBip host \fIhost\fR
.fi
.in -.5i
which is equivalent to:
.in +.5i
.nf
\fBether proto \fI\\ip\fB and host \fIhost\fR
.fi
.in -.5i
If \fIhost\fR is a name with multiple IP addresses, each address is
checked for a match.
.IP "\fBether dst \fIehost\fP
True if the ethernet destination address is \fIehost\fP.  \fIEhost\fP
may be either a name from the
.PN /etc/ethers 
file or a number (see
.MS ethers 3n
for numeric format).
.IP "\fBether src \fIehost\fP
True if the ethernet source address is \fIehost\fP.
.IP "\fBether host \fIehost\fP
True if either the ethernet source or destination address is \fIehost\fP.
.IP "\fBgateway\fP \fIhost\fP
True if the packet used \fIhost\fP as a gateway.  For example, the ethernet
source or destination address was \fIhost\fP but neither the IP source
nor the IP destination was \fIhost\fP.  \fIHost\fP must be a name and
must be found in both 
.PN /etc/hosts 
and 
.PN /etc/ethers .  
(An equivalent expression is
.in +.5i
.nf
\fBether host \fIehost \fBand not host \fIhost\fR
.fi
.in -.5i
which can be used with either names or numbers for \fIhost\fP and
\fIehost\fP.)
.IP "\fBdst net \fInet\fR"
True if the IP destination address of the packet has a network
number of \fInet\fP, which may be either an address or a name.
.IP "\fBsrc net \fInet\fR"
True if the IP source address of the packet has a network
number of \fInet\fP.
.IP "\fBnet \fInet\fR"
True if either the IP source or destination address of the packet has a network
number of \fInet\fP.
.IP "\fBdst port \fIport\fR"
True if the packet is ip/tcp or ip/udp and has a
destination port value of \fIport\fP.
The \fIport\fP can be a number or a name used in 
.PN /etc/services 
(see
.MS tcp 4p
and
.MS udp 4p ).
If a name is used, both the port
number and protocol are checked.  If a number or ambiguous name is used,
only the port number is checked (for example, \fBdst port 513\fR 
prints both
tcp/login traffic and udp/who traffic, and \fBport domain\fR prints
both tcp/domain and udp/domain traffic).
.IP "\fBsrc port \fIport\fR"
True if the packet has a source port value of \fIport\fP.
.IP "\fBport \fIport\fR"
True if either the source or destination port of the packet is \fIport\fP.
Any of the above port expressions can be prepended with the keywords,
\fBtcp\fP or \fBudp\fP, as in:
.in +.5i
.nf
\fBtcp src port \fIport\fR
.fi
.in -.5i
which matches only tcp packets.
.IP "\fBless \fIlength\fR"
True if the packet has a length less than or equal to \fIlength\fP.
This is equivalent to:
.EX
len <= \fIlength\fP
.EE
.IP "\fBgreater \fIlength\fR"
True if the packet has a length greater than or equal to \fIlength\fP.
This is equivalent to:
.EX 
len >= \fIlength\fP
.EE
.IP "\fBip proto \fIprotocol\fR"
True if the packet is an ip packet (see
.MS ip 4p )
of protocol type \fIprotocol\fP.
\fIProtocol\fP can be a number or one of the names
\fIicmp\fP, \fIudp\fP, \fInd\fP, or \fItcp\fP.
Note that the identifiers \fItcp\fP and \fIudp\fP are also keywords
and must be escaped using backslash (\\), which is \\\\ in the C-shell.
.IP \fBbroadcast\fR
True if the packet is a broadcast packet.
.IP  "\fBether proto \fIprotocol\fR"
True if the packet is of ether type \fIprotocol\fR.
\fIProtocol\fP can be a number or a name like
\fIip\fP, \fIarp\fP, or \fIrarp\fP.
Note these identifiers are also keywords
and must be escaped via backslash (\\).
.IP "\fBip\fR, \fBarp\fR, \fBrarp\fR"
Abbreviations for:
.in +.5i
.nf
\fBether proto \fIp\fR
.fi
.in -.5i
where \fIp\fR is one of the above protocols.
.IP  "\fBtcp\fR, \fBudp\fR"
Abbreviations for:
.in +.5i
.nf
\fBip proto \fIp\fR
.fi
.in -.5i
where \fIp\fR is one of the above protocols.
.IP  "\fIexpr relop expr\fR"
True if the relation holds, where \fIrelop\fR is one of >, <, >=, <=, =, !=,
and \fIexpr\fR is an arithmetic expression composed of integer constants
(expressed in standard C syntax), the normal binary operators
[+, -, *, /, &, |], a length operator, and special packet data accessors.  
To access
data inside the packet, use the following syntax:
.in +.5i
.nf
\fIproto\fB [ \fIexpr\fB : \fIsize\fB ]\fR
.fi
.in -.5i
\fIProto\fR is one of \fBether, ip, arp, rarp, tcp, \fRor \fBudp\fR, and
indicates the protocol layer for the index operation.
The byte offset, relative to the indicated protocol layer, is
given by \fIexpr\fR.
\fISize\fR is optional and indicates the number of bytes in the
field of interest; it can be either one, two, or four, and defaults to one.
The length operator, indicated by the keyword
.B len ,
gives the length of the packet.
.IP
For example, `\fBether[0] & 1 != 0\fP' catches all multicast traffic.
The expression `\fBip[0] & 0xf != 5\fP'
catches all IP packets with options. The expression
`\fBip[2:2] & 0x1fff = 0\fP'
catches only unfragmented datagrams and frag zero of fragmented datagrams.
This check is implicitly applied to the \fBtcp\fP and \fBudp\fP 
index operations.
For instance, \fBtcp[0]\fP always means the first
byte of the TCP \fIheader\fP, and never means the first byte of an
intervening fragment.
.PP
Primitives may be combined using:
.IP
A parenthesized group of primitives and operators
(parentheses are special to the Shell and must be escaped).
.IP
Negation (`\fB!\fP' or `\fBnot\fP').
.IP
Concatenation (`\fBand\fP').
.IP
Alternation (`\fBor\fP').
.PP
Negation has highest precedence.
Alternation and concatenation have equal precedence and associate
left to right.  Note that explicit \fBand\fR tokens, not juxtaposition,
are now required for concatenation.
.PP
If an identifier is given without a keyword, the most recent keyword
is assumed.  For example,
.in +.5i
.nf
\fBnot host vs and ace\fR
.fi
.in -.5i
is short for
.in +.5i
.nf
\fBnot host vs and host ace\fR
.fi
.in -.5i
which should not be confused with
.in +.5i
.nf
\fBnot ( host vs or ace )\fR
.fi
.in -.5i
.PP
Expression arguments can be passed to 
.PN tcpdump 
as either a single argument
or as multiple arguments, whichever is more convenient.
Generally, if the expression contains Shell metacharacters, it is
easier to pass it as a single, quoted argument.
Multiple arguments are concatenated with spaces before being parsed.
.SH Restrictions
The 
.PN tcpdump
command for ULTRIX requires ULTRIX version 4.0 or later; the kernel
has to have been built with the 
.PN packetfilter
pseudo-device driver (see
.MS packetfilter 4 ).
.PP
ULTRIX V4.0 and ULTRIX V4.1 do not let you
watch either your own outbound or inbound traffic.
.PP
Some attempt should be made to reassemble IP fragments or, at least
to compute the right length for the higher level protocol.
.PP
A packet trace that crosses a daylight savings time change will give
skewed time stamps (the time change is ignored).
.PP
Name server inverse queries are not dumped correctly: The (empty)
question section is printed rather than real query in the answer
section.  Some believe that inverse queries are themselves a bug and
prefer to fix the program generating them rather than 
.PN tcpdump .
.PP
Apple Ethertalk DDP packets could be dumped as easily as KIP DDP
packets but are not.
.SH Examples
To print all packets arriving at or departing from the host
named 
.PN sundown 
type the following command:
.RS
.nf
\fBtcpdump host sundown\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
To print traffic between 
.PN helios
and either 
.PN hot
or 
.PN ace :
.RS
.nf
\fBtcpdump host helios and \\( hot or ace \\)\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
To print all IP packets between 
.PN ace 
and any host except 
.PN helios :
.RS
.nf
\fBtcpdump ip host ace and not helios\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
To print all traffic between local hosts and hosts at Berkeley:
.RS
.nf
.B "tcpdump net ucb-ether"
.fi
.RE
.PP
To print all ftp traffic through internet gateway 
.PN snup :
.RS
.nf
.B "tcpdump 'gateway snup and (port ftp or ftp-data)' "
.fi
.RE
(Note that the expression is quoted to prevent the shell from
interpreting, or misinterpreting, the parentheses):
.PP
To print traffic neither sourced from nor destined for local hosts
(if you gateway to one other net, these packets should never make it
onto your local net).
.RS
.nf
.B "tcpdump ip and not net \fIlocalnet\fP"
.fi
.RE
.PP
To print the start and end packets (the SYN and FIN packets) of each
TCP conversation that involves a non-local host.
.RS
.nf
.B "tcpdump 'tcp[13] & 3 != 0 and not src and dst net \fIlocalnet\fP' "
.fi
.RE
.PP
To print IP packets longer than 576 bytes sent through gateway 
.PN snup :
.RS
.nf
.B "tcpdump 'gateway snup and ip[2:2] > 576' "
.fi
.RE
.PP
To print IP broadcast or multicast packets that were
not sent via ethernet broadcast or multicast:
.RS
.nf
.B "tcpdump 'ether[0] & 1 = 0 and ip[16] >= 224' "
.fi
.RE
.SH Output Format
The output of 
.PN tcpdump
is protocol dependent.  The following
gives a brief description and examples of most of the formats.
.sp
.sp
.B "Link Level Headers"
.PP
If the '-e' option is given, the link level header is printed out.
On ethernets, the source and destination addresses, protocol,
and packet length are printed.
.PP
.NT
The following description assumes familiarity with
the SLIP compression algorithm described in RFC-1144.
.NE
.PP
On SLIP links, a direction indicator (``I'' for inbound, ``O'' for outbound),
packet type, and compression information are printed out.
The packet type is printed first.
The three types are \fIip\fP, \fIutcp\fP, and \fIctcp\fP.
No further link information is printed for \fIip\fR packets.
For TCP packets, the connection identifier is printed following the type.
If the packet is compressed, its encoded header is printed out.
The special cases are printed out as
\fB*S+\fIn\fR and \fB*SA+\fIn\fR, where \fIn\fR is the amount by which 
the sequence number (or sequence number and ack) has changed.
If it is not a special case,
zero or more changes are printed.  
A change is indicated by U (urgent pointer), W (window), A (ack), 
S (sequence number), and I (packet ID), followed by a delta (+n or -n), 
or a new value (=n).
Finally, the amount of data in the packet and compressed header length 
are printed.
.PP
For example, the following line shows an outbound compressed TCP packet,
with an implicit connection identifier; the ack has changed by 6,
the sequence number by 49, and the packet ID by 6; there are 3 bytes of
data and 6 bytes of compressed header:
.RS
.nf
\fBO ctcp * A+6 S+49 I+6 3 (6)\fP
.fi
.RE
.sp
.sp
.B "ARP/RARP Packets"
.PP
Arp/rarp output shows the type of request and its arguments.  The
format is intended to be self explanatory.
Here is a short sample taken from the start of an `rlogin' from
host 
.PN rtsg 
to host 
.PN csam :
.RS
.nf
.sp .5
\f(CWarp who-has csam tell rtsg
arp reply csam is-at CSAM\fP
.sp .5
.fi
.RE
The first line says that 
.PN rtsg 
sent an arp packet asking
for the ethernet address of internet host 
.PN csam .  
.PN Csam
replies with its ethernet address (in this example, ethernet addresses
are in caps and internet addresses in lower case).
.PP
This would look less redundant if we had done 
.PN "tcpdump \-n" :
.RS
.nf
.sp .5
\f(CWarp who-has 128.3.254.6 tell 128.3.254.68
arp reply 128.3.254.6 is-at 02:07:01:00:01:c4\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
If we had done 
.PN "tcpdump \-e" , 
the fact that the first packet is
broadcast and the second is point-to-point would be visible:
.RS
.nf
.sp .5
\f(CWRTSG Broadcast 0806  64: arp who-has csam tell rtsg
CSAM RTSG 0806  64: arp reply csam is-at CSAM\fP
.sp .5
.fi
.RE
For the first packet this says the ethernet source address is RTSG, the
destination is the broadcast address, the type field
contained hex 0806 (type ETHER_ARP) and the total length was 64 bytes.
.sp
.sp 
.B "TCP Packets"
.PP
.NT
The following description assumes familiarity with
the TCP protocol described in RFC-793.
.NE
.PP
The general format of a tcp protocol line is:
.RS
.nf
.sp .5
\fIsrc > dst: flags data-seqno ack window urgent options\fP
.sp .5
.fi
.RE
\fISrc\fP and \fIdst\fP are the source and destination IP
addresses and ports.  \fIFlags\fP are some combination of S (SYN),
F (FIN), P (PUSH) or R (RST) or a single `.' (no flags).
\fIData-seqno\fP describes the portion of sequence space covered
by the data in this packet (see example below).
\fIAck\fP is the sequence number of the next data expected in the other
direction on this connection.
\fIWindow\fP is the number of bytes of receive buffer space available in
the other direction on this connection.
\fIUrg\fP indicates there is `urgent' data in the packet.
\fIOptions\fP are tcp options enclosed in angle brackets (for example, 
<mss 1024>).
.PP
\fISrc, dst\fP and \fIflags\fP are always present.  The other fields
depend on the contents of the packet's tcp protocol header and
are output only if appropriate.
.PP
Here is the opening portion of an rlogin from host 
.PN rtsg
to host 
.PN csam .
.EX
\s-2\f(CWrtsg.1023 > csam.login: S 768512:768512(0) win 4096 <mss 1024>
csam.login > rtsg.1023: S 947648:947648(0) ack 768513 win 4096 <mss 1024>
rtsg.1023 > csam.login: . ack 1 win 4096
rtsg.1023 > csam.login: P 1:2(1) ack 1 win 4096
csam.login > rtsg.1023: . ack 2 win 4096
rtsg.1023 > csam.login: P 2:21(19) ack 1 win 4096
csam.login > rtsg.1023: P 1:2(1) ack 21 win 4077
csam.login > rtsg.1023: P 2:3(1) ack 21 win 4077 urg 1
csam.login > rtsg.1023: P 3:4(1) ack 21 win 4077 urg 1\fP\s+2
.EE
The first line says that tcp port 1023 on 
.PN rtsg 
sent a packet to port \fIlogin\fP
on 
.PN csam .
The \fBS\fP indicates that the \fISYN\fP flag was set.
The packet sequence number was 768512 and it contained no data.
(The notation is `first:last(nbytes)' which means `sequence
numbers \fIfirst\fP
up to but not including \fIlast\fP which is \fInbytes\fP bytes of user data'.)
There was no piggy-backed ack, the available receive window was 4096
bytes and there was a max-segment-size option requesting an mss of
1024 bytes.
.PP
The host
.PN csam 
replies with a similar packet except it includes a piggy-backed
ack for 
.PN rtsg 's 
SYN.  
The host
.PN rtsg 
then acks 
.PN csam 's 
SYN.  The `.' means no
flags were set.
The packet contained no data so there is no data sequence number.
Note that the ack sequence
number is a small integer (1).  The first time 
.PN tcpdump 
sees a tcp `conversation', it prints the sequence number from the packet.
On subsequent packets of the conversation, the difference between
the current packet's sequence number and this initial sequence number
is printed.  This means that sequence numbers after the
first can be interpreted
as relative byte positions in the conversation's data stream (with the
first data byte each direction being `1').  `-S' will override this
feature, causing the original sequence numbers to be output.
.PP
On the 6th line, 
.PN rtsg 
sends 
.PN csam 
19 bytes of data (bytes 2 through 20
in the rtsg \(-> csam side of the conversation).
The PUSH flag is set in the packet.
On the 7th line, 
.PN csam 
says it has received data sent by 
.PN rtsg 
up to
but not including byte 21.  Most of this data is apparently sitting in the
socket buffer since 
.PN csam 's 
receive window has gotten 19 bytes smaller.
.PN Csam 
also sends one byte of data to 
.PN rtsg 
in this packet.
On the 8th and 9th lines,
.PN csam 
sends two bytes of urgent, pushed data to 
.PN rtsg .
.sp
.sp
.B "UDP Packets"
.PP
UDP format is illustrated by this 
.PN rwho 
packet:
.EX
\f(CWactinide.who > broadcast.who: udp 84\fP
.EE
This says that port \fIwho\fP on host 
.PN actinide
sent a udp
datagram to port \fIwho\fP on host 
.PN broadcast , 
the Internet
broadcast address.  The packet contained 84 bytes of user data.
.PP
Some UDP services are recognized (from the source or destination
port number) and the higher level protocol information printed.
In particular, Domain Name service requests (RFC-1034/1035) and Sun
RPC calls (RFC-1050) to NFS.
.sp
.sp
.B "UDP Name Server Requests"
.PP
.NT
The following description assumes familiarity with
the Domain Service protocol described in RFC-1035.  
.NE
.PP
Name server requests are formatted as follows:
.EX
\fIsrc > dst: id op? flags qtype qclass name (len)\fP
.sp
\f(CWh2opolo.1538 > helios.domain: 3+ A? ucbvax.berkeley.edu. (37)\fP
.EE
Host 
.PN h2opolo
asked the domain server on 
.PN helios
for an
address record (qtype=A) associated with the name 
.PN ucbvax.berkeley.edu .
The query id is `3'.  The `+' indicates the \fIrecursion desired\fP flag
was set.  The query length is 37 bytes, not including the UDP and
IP protocol headers.  The query operation is the normal one, \fIQuery\fP,
so the \fIop\fP field was omitted.  If the \fIop\fP had been 
anything else, it would be printed between the `3' and the `+'.
Similarly, the \fIqclass\fP is the normal one,
\fIC_IN\fP, and omitted.  Any other \fPqclass\fP would be printed
immediately after the `A'.
.PP
A few anomalies are checked and may result in extra fields enclosed in
square brackets.  If a query contains an answer, name server or
authority section,
.IR ancount ,
.IR nscount ,
or
.I arcount
are printed as `[\fIn\fPa]', `[\fIn\fPn]' or  `[\fIn\fPau]' where \fIn\fP
is the appropriate count.
If any of the response bits are set (AA, RA or rcode) or any of the
`must be zero' bits are set in bytes two and three, `[b2&3=\fIx\fP]'
is printed, where \fIx\fP is the hex value of header bytes two and three.
.sp
.sp
.B "UDP Name Server Responses"
.PP
Name server responses are formatted as follows:
.EX
\fIsrc > dst:  id op rcode flags a/n/au type class data (len)\fP
.sp
\f(CWhelios.domain > h2opolo.1538: 3 3/3/7 A 128.32.137.3 (273)
helios.domain > h2opolo.1537: 2 NXDomain* 0/1/0 (97)\fP
.EE
In the first example, 
.PN helios
responds to query id 3 from 
.PN h2opolo
with 3 answer records, 3 name server records and 7 authority records.
The first answer record is type A (address) and its data is internet
address 128.32.137.3.  The total size of the response was 273 bytes,
excluding UDP and IP headers.  The \fIop\fP (Query) and response code
(NoError) were omitted, as was the \fIclass\fP (C_IN) of the A record.
.PP
In the second example, 
.PN helios
responds to query 2 with a
response code of non-existent domain (NXDomain) with no answers,
one name server and no authority records.  The `*' indicates that
the \fIauthoritative answer\fP bit was set.  Since there were no
answers, no type, class or data were printed.
.PP
Other flag characters that might appear are `\-' (recursion available,
RA, \fInot\fP set) and `|' (truncated message, TC, set).  If the
`question' section does not contain exactly one entry, `[\fIn\fPq]'
is printed.
.PP
Note that name server requests and responses tend to be large and the
default \fIsnaplen\fP of 96 bytes may not capture enough of the packet
to print.  Use the \fB\-s\fP flag to increase the snaplen if you
need to seriously investigate name server traffic.  For example, 
`\fB\-s 128\fP' works well.
.sp
.sp
.B "NFS Requests"
.PP
Sun NFS (Network File System) requests and replies are printed as:
.EX
\fIsrc.xid > dst.nfs: len op args\fP
\fIsrc.nfs > dst.xid: reply stat len\fP
.sp
\f(CWvs.e2766 > helios.nfs: 136 readdir fh 6.5197 8192 bytes @ 0
helios.nfs > vs.e2766: reply ok 384
vs.e2767 > helios.nfs: 136 lookup fh 6.5197 `RCS'\fP
.EE
In the first line, host 
.PN vs
sends a transaction with id \fIe2766\fP
to 
.PN helios 
(note that the number following the src host is a
transaction id, \fInot\fP the source port).  The request was 136 bytes,
excluding the UDP and IP headers.  The operation was a \fIreaddir\fP
(read directory) on file handle (\fIfh\fP) 6.5197.  8192 bytes are
read, starting at offset 0.  
.PN Helios
replies `ok' with 384
bytes of data.  (The design of Sun's RPC protocol makes it difficult to
interpret replies.)
.PP
In the third line, 
.PN vs 
asks 
.PN helios
to lookup the name
`\fIRCS\fP' in directory file 6.5197.  Note that the data printed
depends on the operation type.  The format is intended to be self
explanatory, if read in conjunction with
an NFS protocol spec.
.PP
Note that NFS requests are very large and the above will not be printed
unless \fIsnaplen\fP is increased.  You can use `\fB\-s 192\fP' to watch
NFS traffic.
.sp
.sp
.B "KIP Appletalk (DDP in UDP)"
.PP
Appletalk DDP packets encapsulated in UDP datagrams are de-encapsulated
and dumped as DDP packets (that is, all the UDP header information is
discarded).  The file
.PN /etc/atalk.names
file is used to translate appletalk net and node numbers to names.
Lines in this file have the form
.EX
\fInumber          name\fP
.sp
\f(CW1.254           ether
16.1            icsd-net
1.254.110       ace\fP
.EE
The first two lines give the names of appletalk networks.  The third
line gives the name of a particular host (a host is distinguished
from a net by the 3rd octet in the number \-
a net number \fImust\fP have two octets and a host number \fImust\fP
have three octets.)  The number and name should be separated by
whitespace (blanks or tabs).
The
.PN /etc/atalk.names
file may contain blank lines or comment lines (lines starting with
a `#').
.PP
Appletalk addresses are printed in the form
.EX
\fInet.host.port\fP
.sp
\f(CW144.1.209.2 > icsd-net.112.220
office.2 > icsd-net.112.220
jssmag.149.235 > icsd-net.2\fP
.EE
(If the
.PN /etc/atalk.names
file does not exist or does not contain an entry for some appletalk
host/net number, addresses are printed in numeric form.)
In the first example, NBP (DDP port 2) on net 144.1 node 209
is sending to whatever is listening on port 220 of net icsd node 112.
The second line is the same except the full name of the source node
is known (`office').  The third line is a send from port 235 on
net jssmag node 149 to broadcast on the icsd-net NBP port (note that
the broadcast address (255) is indicated by a net name with no host
number \- for this reason it is a good idea to keep node names and
net names distinct in the
.PN /etc/atalk.names 
file).
.PP
NBP (name binding protocol) and ATP (Appletalk transaction protocol)
packets have their contents interpreted.  Other protocols just dump
the protocol name (or number if no name is registered for the
protocol) and packet size.
.PP
\fBNBP packets\fP are formatted like the following examples:
.EX
\s-2\f(CWicsd-net.112.220 > jssmag.2: nbp-lkup 190: "=:LaserWriter@*"
jssmag.209.2 > icsd-net.112.220: nbp-reply 190: "RM1140:LaserWriter@*" 250
techpit.2 > icsd-net.112.220: nbp-reply 190: "techpit:LaserWriter@*" 186\fP\s+2
.EE
The first line is a name lookup request for laserwriters sent by net 
.PN icsd 
host
.PN 112 
and broadcast on net 
.PN jssmag .
The nbp id for the lookup is 190.
The second line shows a reply for this request (note that it has the
same id) from host 
.PN jssmag.209 
saying that it has a laserwriter
resource named "RM1140" registered on port 250.  The third line is
another reply to the same request saying host 
.PN techpit 
has laserwriter
"techpit" registered on port 186.
.PP
\fBATP packet\fP formatting is demonstrated by the following example:
.EX
\s-2\f(CWjssmag.209.165 > helios.132: atp-req  12266<0-7> 0xae030001
helios.132 > jssmag.209.165: atp-resp 12266:0 (512) 0xae040000
helios.132 > jssmag.209.165: atp-resp 12266:1 (512) 0xae040000
helios.132 > jssmag.209.165: atp-resp 12266:2 (512) 0xae040000
helios.132 > jssmag.209.165: atp-resp 12266:3 (512) 0xae040000
helios.132 > jssmag.209.165: atp-resp 12266:4 (512) 0xae040000
helios.132 > jssmag.209.165: atp-resp 12266:5 (512) 0xae040000
helios.132 > jssmag.209.165: atp-resp 12266:6 (512) 0xae040000
helios.132 > jssmag.209.165: atp-resp*12266:7 (512) 0xae040000
jssmag.209.165 > helios.132: atp-req  12266<3,5> 0xae030001
helios.132 > jssmag.209.165: atp-resp 12266:3 (512) 0xae040000
helios.132 > jssmag.209.165: atp-resp 12266:5 (512) 0xae040000
jssmag.209.165 > helios.132: atp-rel  12266<0-7> 0xae030001
jssmag.209.133 > helios.132: atp-req* 12267<0-7> 0xae030002\fP\s+2
.EE
.PN Jssmag.209 
initiates transaction id 12266 with host 
.PN helios 
by requesting
up to 8 packets (the `<0-7>').  The hex number at the end of the line
is the value of the `userdata' field in the request.
.PP
.PN Helios 
responds with 8 512-byte packets.  The `:digit' following the
transaction id gives the packet sequence number in the transaction
and the number in parens is the amount of data in the packet,
excluding the atp header.  The `*' on packet 7 indicates that the
EOM bit was set.
.PP
.PN Jssmag.209 
then requests that packets 3 & 5 be retransmitted.  
.PN Helios
resends them and then 
.PN jssmag.209 
releases the transaction.  Finally,
.PN jssmag.209 
initiates the next request.  The `*' on the request
indicates that XO (`exactly once') was \fInot\fP set.
.sp
.sp
.B "IP Fragmentation"
.PP
Fragmented Internet datagrams are printed as
.EX
\fB(frag \fIid\fB:\fIsize\fB@\fIoffset\fB+)\fR
\fB(frag \fIid\fB:\fIsize\fB@\fIoffset\fB)\fR
.EE
(The first form indicates there are more fragments.  The second
indicates this is the last fragment.)
.PP
\fIId\fP is the fragment id (in hex).  \fISize\fP is the fragment
size (in bytes) excluding the IP header.  \fIOffset\fP is this
fragment's offset (in bytes) in the original datagram.
.PP
The fragment information is output for each fragment.  The first
fragment contains the higher level protocol header and the frag
info is printed after the protocol info.  Fragments
after the first contain no higher level protocol header and the
frag info is printed after the source and destination addresses.
For example, here is part of an ftp from 
.PN arizona.edu 
to 
.PN lbl-rtsg.arpa
over a CSNET connection that does not appear to handle 576 byte datagrams:
.EX
\s-2\f(CWarizona.ftp-data > rtsg.1170: . 1024:1332(308) ack 1 win 4096 (frag 595a:328@0+)
arizona > rtsg: (frag 595a:204@328)
rtsg.1170 > arizona.ftp-data: . ack 1536 win 2560\fP\s+2
.EE
There are a couple of things to note here:  First, addresses in the
2nd line do not include port numbers.  This is because the TCP
protocol information is all in the first fragment and we have no idea
what the port or sequence numbers are when we print the later fragments.
Second, the tcp sequence information in the first line is printed as if there
were 308 bytes of user data when, in fact, there are 512 bytes (308 in
the first frag and 204 in the second).  If you are looking for holes
in the sequence space or trying to match up acks
with packets, this can fool you.
.PP
A packet with the IP \fIdon't fragment\fP flag is marked with a
trailing \fB(DF)\fP.
.sp
.sp
.B "Timestamps"
.PP
By default, all output lines are preceded by a timestamp.  The timestamp
is the current clock time in the form
.EX
\fIhh:mm:ss.frac\fP
.EE
and is as accurate as the kernel's clock (for example, \(+-4ms on an
ULTRIX RISC workstation).
The timestamp reflects the time the kernel first saw the packet.  No attempt
is made to account for the time lag between when the
ethernet interface removed the packet from the wire and when the kernel
serviced the `new packet' interrupt.
.SH Copyright
Copyright (c) 1988-1990 The Regents of the University of California.
All rights reserved.
.PP
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that: (1) source code distributions
retain the above copyright notice and this paragraph in its entirety, (2)
distributions including binary code include the above copyright notice and
this paragraph in its entirety in the documentation or other materials
provided with the distribution, and (3) all advertising materials mentioning
features or use of this software display the following acknowledgement:
``This product includes software developed by the University of California,
Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory and its contributors.'' Neither the name of
the University nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse
or promote products derived from this software without specific prior
written permission.
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH See Also
packetfilter(4), pfconfig(8c), pfstat(8)
