.\" SCCSID: @(#)telnet.1c	8.1	9/11/90
.TH telnet 1c
.SH Name
telnet \- user interface to the TELNET protocol
.SH Syntax
\fBtelnet\fR [\|\fIhost\|\fR[\fIport\fR\|]\|]
.SH Description
.NXR "telnet user interface"
.NXS "TELNET protocol" "telnet user interface"
The
.PN telnet
interface
is used to communicate with another host using the TELNET protocol.  If 
.PN telnet
is invoked without arguments, it enters command mode,
which is indicated by the prompt, telnet>.
In this mode,
.PN telnet
accepts and executes the commands listed below.
If it is invoked with arguments, it performs an
.B open
command (see below) with those arguments.
.PP
Once a connection is opened,
.PN telnet
enters input mode.
The input mode is either character-at-a-time or 
line-by-line, depending on what the remote system supports.
In character-at-a-time mode, text is sent to the remote host as
it is typed.
In line-by-line mode, text is echoed locally and
only completed
lines are sent to the remote host.  The local-echo-character,
initially ^E.
turns the local echo on and off, which is
useful when you want to enter passwords without them
echoing to the screen.
.PP
In either mode, if the
.I localchars
toggle is TRUE (the default in line mode), then the user's 
.I quit,
.I intr,
and
.I flush 
characters are trapped locally and sent as TELNET
protocol sequences to the remote side.  Options such as toggle
.I autoflush
and toggle
.I autosynch
flush previous terminal input, as in
.I quit
and
.I intr, 
in addition to flushing subsequent output to the terminal until
the remote host acknowledges the TELNET sequence.
.PP
To issue
.PN telnet
commands when in input mode, precede them with the
.PN telnet
escape character, initially the control character followed
by a right bracket (\fB^]\fR).
When in command mode, use the normal terminal editing conventions.
.PP
The following commands are available:
.NXR "telnet user interface" "command list"
.TP 15
\fBopen\fP \fIhost\fP [ \fIport\fP ]
.NXR "open command (TELNET)"
Opens a connection to the named host.  If no port number
is specified, 
.PN telnet
attempts to contact a TELNET server at the default port.
The host specification may be either a host name
or an Internet address specified in the dot notation.
For further information, see 
.MS hosts 5 
and
.MS inet 3n .
.TP
.B close
.NXR "close command (TELNET)"
Closes a TELNET session and returns to command mode.
.TP
.B quit
.NXR "quit command (TELNET)"
Closes any open TELNET session and exits
.PN telnet .
.TP
.B z
.NXR "z command (TELNET)"
Suspends
.PN telnet .
This command only works when the user is using the 
.MS csh 1 .
.TP
\fBmode \fItype\fR
.NXR "mode command (TELNET)"
The
.I type
is either
.I line,
for line-by-line mode, or
.I character,
for character-at-a-time mode.
The local host asks the remote host for permission to go into
one or the other mode.  
The remote host enters the requested mode if it is capable of it.
.TP
.B status
.NXR "status command (TELNET)"
Shows the current status of 
.PN telnet .
This includes the peer one is connected to, as well
as the state of debugging.
.TP
.B display \fR[\fP \fIargument...\fP \fR]\fP
.NXR "display command (TELNET)"
.br
Displays all, or some, of the
.B set
and
.B toggle
values (see below).
.TP
.B ? \fR[\fP \fIcommand\fP \fR]\fP
.NXR "? command (TELNET)"
.br
Accesses on-line help.  With no arguments,
.PN telnet
prints a help summary.
If a command is specified, 
.PN telnet
prints the help information for that command.
.TP
.B send \fIargument(s)\fP
.NXR "send command (TELNET)"
.br
Sends one or more special character sequences to the remote host.
One or more of the following arguments can be specified:
.RS
.TP
.I escape
.br
Sends the current
.PN telnet
escape character (initially the control character followed by a
right bracket, \fB^]\fR).
.TP
.I synch
.br
Sends the TELNET SYNCH
sequence.
This sequence causes the remote system to discard input that
was previously entered but that it has not yet read.
This sequence is sent as TCP urgent
data and may not work if the remote system is a 4.2 BSD system.  If
it does not work, a lower case r may be echoed on the terminal screen.
.TP
.I brk
.br
Sends the TELNET BRK
(Break) sequence, which may have significance to the remote
system.
.TP
.I ip
.br
Sends the TELNET IP
(Interrupt Process) sequence, which causes the remote
system to abort the currently running process.
.TP
.I ao
.br
Sends the TELNET AO
(Abort Output) sequence, which causes the remote system to flush
all output
.B from
the remote system
.B to
the user's terminal.
.TP
.I ayt
.br
Sends the TELNET AYT
(Are You There)
sequence.  The remote system may or may not respond.
.TP
.I ec
.br
Sends the TELNET EC
(Erase Character)
sequence, which causes the remote system to erase the last character
entered.
.TP
.I el
.br
Sends the TELNET EL
(Erase Line)
sequence, which causes the remote system to erase the line currently
being entered.
.TP
.I ga
.br
Sends the TELNET GA
(Go Ahead)
sequence.  Often this sequence has no significance to the remote system.
.TP
.I nop
.br
Sends the TELNET NOP
(No OPeration)
sequence.
.TP
.I ?
.br
Prints out help information for the
.B send
command.
.RE
.TP
.B set \fIargument value\fP
.NXR "set command (TELNET)"
.br
Sets a
.PN telnet
variable to a specific value.
The off value turns off the function associated with
the variable.
The current values of variables can be displayed with the
.B display
command.
.PP
The following variables that can be specified:
.RS
.TP
.I echo
.br
Toggles between local echoing
of entered characters, and suppressing
echoing of entered characters when in
line-by-line mode.  The value  is initially ^E.
.TP
.I escape
.br
Enters the
.PN telnet
command mode when you are connected to
a remote system.  The value is initially
the control character followed by a left bracket
(\fB^[\fR).
.TP
.I interrupt
.br
Sends a TELNET IP
sequence (see
.B send
.I ip
above)
to the remote host if
.PN telnet
is in
.I localchars
mode (see
.B toggle
.I localchars
below) and the
.I interrupt
character is typed.
The initial value for the interrupt character is
the terminal's
.B intr
character.
.TP
.I quit
.br
Sends a TELNET BRK
sequence (see
.B send
.I brk
above)
to the remote host if
.PN telnet
is in
.I localchars
mode (see
.B toggle
.I localchars
below)
and the
.I quit
character is typed.
The initial value for the quit character is
the terminal's
.B quit
character.
.TP
.I flushoutput
.br
Sends a TELNET AO
sequence (see
.B send
.I ao
above)
to the remote host if
.I telnet
is in
.I localchars
mode (see
.B toggle
.I localchars
below)
and the
.I flushoutput
character is typed.
The initial value for the flush character is 
the terminal's
.B flush
character.
.TP
.I erase
.br
Sends a TELNET EC
sequence (see
.B send
.I ec
above)
to the remote system if
.I telnet
is in
.I localchars
mode (see
.B toggle
.I localchars
below),
.B and
if
.I telnet
is operating in character-at-time mode.
The initial value for the erase character is
the terminal's
.B erase
character.
.TP
.I kill
.br
Sends a TELNET EL
sequence (see
.B send
.I el
above)
to the remote system if
.PN telnet
is in
.I localchars
mode (see
.B toggle
.I localchars
below)
.B and
if
.PN telnet
is operating in character-at-a-time mode.
The initial value for the kill character is 
the terminal's
.B kill
character.
.TP
.I eof
.br
Sends this character to 
the remote system if
.PN telnet
is operating in line-by-line mode and this character is
entered as the first character on a line.
The initial value of the eof character is the terminal's
.B eof
character.
.RE
.TP
.B toggle \fIarguments...\fP
.NXR "toggle command (TELNET)"
.br
Toggles (between
TRUE
and
FALSE)
flags that control how
.PN telnet
responds to events.
More than one argument may be specified and
the current value of these flags can be displayed with the
.B display
command.
Valid arguments for the 
.PN toggle
command are the following:
.RS
.TP
.I localchars
.br
Causes the 
.IR flush ,
.IR interrupt ,
.IR quit ,
.IR erase ,
and
.I kill
characters to be recognized
locally and transformed into appropriate
TELNET control sequences if this flag is set to
TRUE.  (See
.B set
above).  The appropriate TELNET control sequences are:
.IR ao ,
.IR ip ,
.IR brk ,
.IR ec ,
and
.IR el ,
respectively.
For more information see the
.PN send
command.
The initial value for this toggle is TRUE in line-by-line mode,
and FALSE in character-at-a-time mode.
.TP
.I autoflush
.br
Causes the 
.PN telnet
command to not display any data on the user's terminal
until the remote system acknowledges (via a TELNET
.I Timing Mark
option)
that it recognized and processed the following TELNET sequences:
.IR ao ,
.IR intr ,
or
.I quit.
Both 
.I autoflush
and
.I localchars
must be TRUE for
.I autoflush
to work in this manner.
The initial value for this toggle is TRUE if the terminal user did not
specify
.PN "stty noflsh" .  
Otherwise it is FALSE.  For further information, see
.MS stty 1 .
.TP
.I autosynch
Causes the TELNET SYNCH
sequence to follow the TELNET sequence that is initiated
when either the
.I intr
or
.I quit
character is typed.
The
.I autosynch
flag works in this manner when both the
.I autosynch
and
.I localchars
are TRUE.
This procedure should
cause the remote system to begin throwing away all previously
typed input until both of the TELNET
sequences have been read and acted upon.
The initial value of this toggle is FALSE.
.TP
.I crmod
.br
Toggles carriage return mode.
When this mode is enabled, most carriage return characters received from
the remote host are mapped into a carriage return followed by
a line feed.
It is useful only
when the remote host sends carriage returns but never line feeds.
The initial value for this toggle is FALSE.
.TP
.I debug
.br
Toggles socket level debugging which is useful only to the
.IR superuser.
The initial value for this toggle is FALSE.
.TP
.I options
.br
Toggles the display of internal
.PN telnet
protocol processing that deals with TELNET
options.
The initial value for this toggle is FALSE.
.TP
.I netdata
.br
Toggles the display of all network data (in hexadecimal format).
The initial value for this toggle is FALSE.
.TP
.I ?
.br
Displays the legal
.B toggle
commands.
.RE
.SH Restrictions
In line-by-line mode, the terminal's EOF character is only recognized and
sent to the remote system when it is the first character on a line.
