.\" SCCSID: @(#)tftp.1c	8.1	9/11/90
.TH tftp 1c
.SH Name
tftp \- trivial file transfer program
.SH Syntax
.B tftp
[\|\fIhost\fR\|] [\|\fIport\fR\|]
.SH Description
.NXR "tftp program"
.NXR "Trivial File Transfer Protocol" "user interface"
.NXR "Trivial File Transfer Protocol" "tftp program"
.NXR "file" "transferring remote"
The 
.PN tftp
command
provides the user interface to the 
Internet standard Trivial File Transfer Protocol.
The program allows a user to transfer files to and from a
remote network site.  The remote host
can be specified on the 
command line.  If you specify the remote host on the
command line
.PN tftp
uses
.I host
as the default host for future transfers.
.PP
If a
.I port
is specified,
.PN tftp
uses that port number instead of the standard 
.PN tftp 
service port.
When the user invokes the
.PN tftp
program
.PN tftp
enters its command interpreter and awaits instructions.
The prompt tftp> is displayed on the screen.
.PP
The following commands are recognized
by
.PN tftp :
.TP 20
.B ?
.NXR "? command (tftp)"
Displays a help message that gives a brief summary of the commands.
.TP
.B ascii
.NXR "ascii command (tftp)"
Specifies mode ascii.
.TP
.B binary
.NXR "binary command (tftp)"
Specifies mode binary.
.TP
\fBconnect \fIhost-name\fR [ \fIport\fR ]
.NXR "connect command (tftp)"
Sets the 
.I host 
and, optionally, sets
.I port
for transfers.
Note that the TFTP protocol does not 
maintain connections between transfers.  Because 
.PN connect
merely remembers
what host should be used for transfers instead of
actually creating a connection, it is not necessary to use
the
.PN connect
command.  The remote host can be specified as part of the
.PN get
or
.PN put 
commands.
.TP
\fBget\fP \fIremote-file...\fP [ \fIlocal-file\fP ]
.NXR "get command (tftp)"
Gets a file or set of files from the specified sources.  If the host
has already been specified, the
.I source
can be in the form of a filename on the remote host.
If the host has not been specified, the 
.I source 
can be a string of the form 
.I host:file,
specifying both a host and filename at the same time.  If the latter
form is used, the last hostname entered becomes the default for
future transfers.
.TP
.B mode
.NXR "mode command (tftp)"
Sets the file transfer 
.I type
to network ASCII or binary.  The default type is network ASCII.
.TP
\fBput\fP \fIlocal-file...\fP [ \fIremote-file/directory\fP ]
.NXR "put command (tftp)"
Puts a file or set of files to the specified remote file or directory.  
If the remote host has
already been specified, the destination can be a filename on it.
If the remote host has not been specified, the destination
can be a string of the form
.I host:filename,
specifying both a host and filename at the same time.  If the latter form is 
used, the last hostname entered becomes the default for future transfers.
If the remote-directory form is used, the remote host is assumed to be a UNIX
machine.
.TP
.B quit
.NXR "quit command (tftp)"
Exits the 
.PN tftp 
program.
.TP
.B rexmt
.NXR "rexmt command (tftp)"
Sets the retransmit timer.
.TP
.B status
.NXR "status command (tftp)"
Shows what
.PN tftp
believes to be the current connection status.
.TP
.B timeout
.NXR "timeout command (tftp)"
Set the transaction timeout.
.TP
.B trace
.NXR "trace command (tftp)"
Sets the packet trace flag.
.TP
.B verbose
.NXR "verbose command (tftp)"
Sets the verbose mode flag.
.SH Restrictions
.NXR "tftp program" "authentication and"
Since the TFTP protocol does not support any authentication,
files must be world read (writable) on the remote system.
.PP
Because there is no user-login validation within the TFTP protocol,
the remote site should have some sort of file access restrictions
in place.  The exact methods are specific to each site.
