.\" SCCSID: @(#)uniq.1	8.1	9/11/90
.TH uniq 1 
.SH Name
uniq \- report repeated lines in a file
.SH Syntax
.B uniq
[\fB\-udc\fR\|[\fB\+n\fR]\|[\fB\-n\fR]\|] [\fI\|input\fR\|[\fIoutput\fR\|]\|]
.SH Description
.NXR "uniq command"
.NXA "uniq command" "sccsdiff command"
.NXA "uniq command" "diff3 command"
.NXA "uniq command" "diffmk command"
.NXA "uniq command" "diff command"
.NXA "uniq command" "comm command"
.NXA "uniq command" "cmp command"
.NXA "uniq command" "join command"
.NXR "file" "comparing"
The
.PN uniq
command reads the input file comparing adjacent lines.
In the normal case,
the second and succeeding copies of repeated lines are
removed; the remainder is written on the output file.
Note that repeated lines must be adjacent in order to be found. 
For further information, see 
.MS sort 1 .
.SH Options
.PP
The
.I n
arguments specify skipping an initial portion
of each line in the comparison:
.IP \fB\-\fIn\fR 0.3i
Skips specified number of fields.  
A field is defined as a string of non-space, non-tab characters
separated by tabs and spaces from its neighbors.
.IP \fB\+\fIn\fR 0.3i
Skips specified number of characters in addition to fields.  
Fields are skipped before characters.
.IP \fB\-c\fR 0.3i
Displays number of repetitions, if any, for each line.  
.IP \fB\-d\fR 0.3i
Displays only lines that were repeated.  
.IP \fB\-u\fR 0.3i
Displays only unique (nonrepeated) lines.  
.PP
If the
.B \-u
flag is used, just the lines that are not repeated
in the original file are output.  The
.B \-d
option specifies that one copy of
just the repeated lines is to be written.
The normal mode output is the union of the
.B \-u
and
.B \-d
mode outputs.
.PP
The
.B \-c
option supersedes
.B \-u
and
.B \-d
and generates an output report in default style
but with each line preceded by a
count of the number of times it occurred.
.SH See Also
comm(1), sort(1)
