.\" SCCSID: @(#)uucp.1c	8.1	9/11/90
.TH uucp 1c
.SH Name
uucp, uulog, uuname \- unix to unix copy
.SH Syntax
.B uucp
[\|\fIoption...\fR\|] \fIsource-file...  destination-file\fR
.PP
.B uulog
[\|\fIoption...\fR\|]
.PP
.B uuname
[\|\fIoption...\fR\|]
.SH Description
.NXA "uucp utility" "uustat program"
.NXR "uucp utility" 
The
.PN uucp
command copies files named by the source-file arguments
to the destination-file argument.
A file name either may be a path name on your machine or 
may have the form
.IP
system-name!pathname
.PP
where `system-name' is taken from a list of system names
which
.PN uucp
knows about.
Shell metacharacters ?*[] appearing in the pathname part
will be expanded on the appropriate system.
.PP
Pathnames may be
a full pathname,
a pathname preceded by
.IR ~user,
where
.I user
is a userid on the specified system
and is replaced by that user's login directory, or
anything else prefixed by the current directory.
.PP
If the result is an erroneous pathname for the remote system,
the copy will fail.
If the destination-file is a directory, the last part of the
source-file name is used.
If a simple
.I ~user
destination is inaccessible to 
.PN uucp ,
data is copied to a spool directory and the user
is notified by 
.MS mail 1 .
.PP
The
.PN uucp
command preserves execute permissions across the transmission
and gives 0666 read and write permissions.  For further information,
see 
.MS chmod 2 .
.SH Options
.NXR "uucp utility" "options"
The following options are interpreted by
.PN uucp .
.IP \fB\-d\fR 0.3i
Creates all necessary directories for the file copy.
.IP \fB\-c\fR 0.3i
Uses the source file when copying out rather than
copying the file to the spool directory.
.IP \fB\-m\fR 0.3i
Sends you mail when the copy is complete.
.IP "\fB\-n\fIrec\fR" 0.3i
Sends mail to the recipient.
.IP \fB\-W\fR 0.3i 
Expands only local files.  
Normally files names are prepended with the current working directory
if a full path is not specified.  The \fI\-W\fP tells 
.PN uucp
to expand local files only.
.PP
The
.PN uulog
command prints a summary 
of 
.PN uucp
and
.PN uux
transactions that were recorded in the file
.PN /usr/spool/uucp/LOGFILE .
.PP
The options cause 
.PN uulog 
to print logging information:
.IP \fB\-s\fIsys\fP 0.3i
Displays information about work involving specified system.  
.IP \fB\-u\fIuser\fP 0.3i
Displays information about work involving specified
.I user.
.PP
The
.PN uuname
command lists the uucp names of known systems.
.IP \fB\-l\fR 0.3i
Lists local system name.  
.SH Warnings
.NXR(w) "uucp utility" "remote system pathnames and"
The domain of remotely accessible files can
(and for obvious security reasons, usually should)
be severely restricted.
You will very likely not be able to fetch files
by pathname.
Ask a responsible person on the remote system to
send them to you.
For the same reasons, you will probably not be able
to send files to arbitrary pathnames.
.SH Restrictions
.NXR "uucp utility" "restricted"
All files received by
.PN uucp
will be owned by uucp.
.br
The \-m option will only work sending files or receiving
a single file.
(Receiving multiple files specified by special shell
characters ?*[] will not activate
the \-m option.)
.SH Files
/usr/spool/uucp - spool directory
.br
/usr/lib/uucp/* - other data and program files
.br
/etc/acucap - shared autodial modem database
.SH See Also
mail(1), uux(1c), acucap(5)
.br
"Uucp Implementation Description,"
.I ULTRIX Supplementary Documentation, 
Vol. III:System Manager
