.ds S)  \s-1SCCS\s0
.ds I)  \fI\s-1SID\s0\fR
.TH val 1
.SH Name
val \- validate SCCS file
.SH Syntax  
\fBval \-\fR
.br
.B val
[\fB\-s\fR] [\fB\-r\fISID\fR\|] [\fB\-m\fIname\fR\|] [\fB\-y\fItype\fR\|] \fIfiles\fR
.SH Description
.NXR "val command (sccs)"
.NXR "SCCS file" "validating"
The
.PN val
command determines if the specified
.I file\^
is an \*(S) file meeting the characteristics specified by the optional
argument list.
Arguments to
.PN val
may appear in any order.
The arguments consist of keyletter arguments that begin with a ``-'' and
named files.
.PP
The
.PN val
command
has a special argument, ``-,'' which causes reading of the standard input
until an end-of-file condition is detected.
Each line read is independently processed, as if it were 
a command line argument
list.
.PP
The
.PN val
command
generates diagnostic messages on the standard output for each command line
and file processed and also returns a single 8\fB-\fRbit code upon exit as
described below.
.SH Options
.NXR "val command (sccs)" "keyletters"
The effects of any keyletter argument apply independently to each named file
on the command line.    
The keyletter arguments are defined as follows:
.RS
.IP \fB\-\fR 0.3i
Causes stdin to be read until end of file.  
.IP \fB\-s\fR 0.3i
Suppresses all error messages.  
.IP \fB\-r\fISID\fR 0.3i
Indicates specified delta version number.  
A check is made to determine if the
\*(I)
is ambiguous, for example, 
.B \*-r\c
1 is ambiguous because it physically does 
not exist but implies 1.1, 1.2,
and so forth, which may exist) or invalid, for example, 
.B \*-r\c
1.0 or
.B \*-r\c
1.1.0 are invalid because neither case can exist as a valid delta number).
If the
\*(I)
is valid and not ambiguous, a check is made
to determine if it actually exists.
.IP \fB\-m\fIname\fR 0.3i
Compares specified value with the SCCS val.1 keyword.  
.IP \fB\-y\fItype\fR 0.3i
Compares specified type with SCCS  keyword.  
.RE
.PP
The 8\fB-\fRbit code returned by
.PN val
is a disjunction of the possible errors.  It can be interpreted as
a bit string where set bits are interpreted (from left to right) 
as: 
.NXR "val command (sccs)" "interpreting 8-bit exit code"
.nf
.PP
.RS
bit 0 = missing file argument
bit 1 = unknown or duplicate keyletter argument
bit 2 = corrupted \*(S) file
bit 3 = can't open file or file not \*(S)
bit 4 = \*(I) is invalid or ambiguous
bit 5 = \*(I) does not exist
bit 6 = %\&Y%, \fB\-y\fR mismatch
bit 7 = %\&M%, \fB\-m\fR mismatch
.RE
.fi
.PP
Note that
.PN val
can process two or more files on a given command line and can
process multiple command lines when reading the standard input.
.NXR "val command (sccs)" "processing multiple files"
In these cases, an aggregate code is returned \- a logical OR of the
codes generated for each command line and file processed.
.SH Restrictions
.NXR "val command (sccs)" "restricted"
The
.PN val
command can process up to 50 files on a single command line.
Any number above 50 produces a core dump.
.SH Diagnostics
Use 
.MS sccshelp 1
for explanations.
.SH See Also
admin(1), delta(1), get(1), prs(1), sccs(1)
.br
\fIGuide to the Source Code Control System\fP
