.\" SCCSID: @(#)vi.1	8.1	9/11/90
.TH vi 1
.SH Name
vi \- screen editor
.SH Syntax 
.B vi
[
.B \-t
.I tag
] [
.BI + command
] [
.B \-l
] [
.B \-r
] [
.BI \-w n
] [
.B \-x
]
.I name...
.SH Description
.NX R "encryption" "vi screen editor"  
.NX R "editors" "vi (screen)"  
.NX R "vi (screen) editor"  
The
.PN vi
(visual) editor is a display-oriented text editor based on
.MS ex 1 .
The
.PN ex
command and the
.PN vi
command run the same code.  You can access the command mode of
.PN ex
from within
.PN vi .
.PP
The following is a list of some of the 
.PN vi 
commands.  See the
\fIvi Beginner's Reference Card\fP
and 
"An Introduction to Display Editing with vi" in the
\fISupplementary Documents, Volume 1: General User\fP
for more details on using
.PN vi .
.PP
.B Screen Control Commands
.RS 5
.IP <CTRL/L> 13 
Reprints current screen.
.IP <CTRL/Y> 
Exposes one more line at top of screen.
.IP <CTRL/E> 
Exposes one more line at bottom of screen.
.RE
.PP
.B Paging Commands
.RS 5
.IP <CTRL/F> 13
Pages forward one screen.
.IP <CTRL/B>
Pages back one screen.
.IP <CTRL/D>
Pages down half screen.
.IP <CTRL/U>
Pages up half screen.
.RE
.PP
.B Cursor Positioning Commands
.RS 5
.IP j 13
Moves cursor down one line, same column.
.IP k
Moves cursor up one line, same column.
.IP h
Moves cursor back one character.
.IP l
Moves cursor forward one character.
.IP <RETURN>
Moves cursor to beginning of next line.
.IP 0
Moves cursor to beginning of current line.
.IP $
Moves cursor to end of current line.
.IP <SPACE>
Moves cursor forward one character.
.TP 13
.IB n G
Moves cursor to beginning of line
.I n.
Default is last line  of file.
.TP
.BI / pattern
Moves cursor forward to next occurrence of
.I pattern.
.TP
.BI ? pattern
Moves cursor backward to next occurrence of 
.I pattern.
.IP n
Repeats last / or ? pattern search.
.RE
.PP
.B Text Insertion Commands
.RS 5
.IP a 13
Appends text after cursor. Terminated by <ESC>.
.IP A
Appends text at the end of the line. Terminated by <ESC>.
.IP i
Inserts text before cursor. Terminated by <ESC>.
.IP I
Inserts text at the beginning of the line. Terminated by <ESC>.
.IP o
Opens new line below the current line for text insertion. 
Terminated by <ESC>.
.IP O
Opens new line above the current line for text insertion. 
Terminated by <ESC>.
.IP <DELETE>
Overwrites last character during text insertion.
.IP <ESC> 
Stops text insertion. 
.RE
.PP
.B Text Deletion Commands
.RS 5
.IP dw 13 
Deletes current word.
.IP x
Deletes current character.
.IP dd
Deletes current line.
.IP "D, d$"
Deletes from cursor to end of line. 
.IP P
Puts back text from the previous delete.
.RE
.PP
.B Text Change Commands
.RS 5
.IP cw 13
Changes characters of current word until stopped with escape key.
.IP c$
Changes text up to the end of the line.
.IP "C, c$"
Changes remaining text on current line until stopped by
pressing the escape key. 
.IP ~
Changes case of current character.
.IP xp
Transposes current and following characters.  
.IP J
Joins current line with next line.
.TP 13
.BI r x
Replaces current character with
.I x.
.RE
.PP
.B Buffer Usage Commands
.RS 5
.TP 13
.IB "[a\-z]n yy
Yanks
.I n
lines to the
.I [a\-z]
buffer.  Default is current line.
.TP
.IB "[a\-z]n p
Puts
.I n
yanked text lines from the
.I a\-z
buffer, after the cursor.
.RE
.PP
.B Exiting vi
.RS 5
.IP ZZ 13
Exits 
.PN vi 
and saves changes
.IP :wq
Writes changes to current file and quits edit session.
.IP :q
Quits edit session (no changes made).
.RE
.PP
The
.PN view
command uses all of 
the same edit or commands 
as
.PN vi .
However,
.PN view
does not allow you to write the file. See
.MS view 1 .
.SH Options
.TP 10
.BI \-t \ tag
Specifies a list of 
.I tag
files.  The
.I tag
files are preceded by a backslash (\e)
and are separated by spaces.  The 
.I tag
option should always be the first entry.
.TP
.BI + command
Tells the editor to begin by executing the specified 
.I command.
A useful example would be
.RI +/ pattern
to search for a 
.I pattern.
.IP \-l
Sets the 
showmatch and lisp options for editing LISP code.
.TP
.BI \-r \ name
Retrieves the last saved version of the 
.IR name 'd
file in the event of an editor or system crash.  If no file is
specified, a list of saved files is produced.
.TP
.BI \-w n
Sets the default window size to
.I n.
This option is useful for starting in a small window on dialups.
.NT
The 
.B \-x
option is available only if the Encryption 
layered product is installed.
.NE
.IP \-x 10
Causes  
.PN vi
to prompt for a 
.I key.
The 
.I key
is used to encrypt and decrypt the contents of the file. If the file 
contents have been encrypted with one 
.IR key ,
you must use the same 
.I key 
to decrypt the file.
.SH Restrictions 
Software tabs using
.B ^T
work only immediately after the
.I autoindent.
.PP
Left and right shifts on intelligent terminals do not make use of
insert and delete character operations in the terminal.
.PP
The
.I wrapmargin
option sometimes works incorrectly because it
looks at output columns when blanks are typed.
If a long word passes through the margin and onto
the next line without a 
break, then the line is not broken.
.PP
Insert/delete within a line can be slow
if tabs are present on intelligent
terminals, since the terminals need help in doing this correctly.
.PP
Saving text on deletes in the named buffers is somewhat inefficient.
.PP
The
.I source
command does not work when executed as
.BR :source ;
there is no way to use the
.BR :append ,
.BR :change ,
and
.BR :insert
commands, since it is not possible to give on a
.BR :global
you must
.B Q
to
.PN ex
command mode, execute them, and then reenter the screen editor with
.PN vi
or
.PN open .
.SH See Also
ed(1), ex(1), view(1)
.br
\fIThe Little Gray Book: An ULTRIX Primer\fP
.br
\fIThe Big Gray Book: The Next Step with ULTRIX\fP
.br
"An Introduction to Display Editing with Vi",
\fISupplementary Documents, Volume 1: General User\fP
