.\" SCCSID: @(#)vlp.1	8.1	9/11/90
.TH vlp 1 VAX "" Unsupported
.SH Name
vlp \- Format Lisp programs to be printed with nroff, vtroff, or troff
.SH Syntax
.B vlp
[
.B \-p
.I pointsize
] [
.B \-d
] [
.B \-f
] [
.B \-l
] [
.B \-v
] [
.B \-T
.I title1
] 
.I file1 
[
.B \-T
.I title2
] 
.I file2 ...
.SH Description
The 
.PN vlp
command formats the named \fIfiles\fP
so that they can be run through 
.PN nroff ,
.PN vtroff , 
or
.PN troff 
to produce listings that line-up and are attractive.
The first non-blank character of each line is lined-up vertically,
as in the source file.
Comments (text beginning with a semicolon)
are printed in italics.
Each function's name is printed in bold face next to the function.
This format makes Lisp code look attractive when it is printed with a 
variable width font.
.PP
Normally,
.PN vlp 
works as a filter and sends its output to the standard output.
However,
the 
.B \-v
option pipes the output directly to 
.PN vtroff .
If no \fIfiles\fP are specified,
then 
.PN vlp
reads from the standard input.
.SH Options
.TP
.B \-p
Changes the size of the text from its default value of 8 points
to one of 6, 8, 10, or 12 points.
Once set, the point size is used for all subsequent files.
This point size does not apply to embedded text (see the
\fB\-f\fR option).
.TP
.B \-d
Puts 
.PN vlp
into debugging mode.
.TP
.B \-f
Sets the filtered mode
in which all lines are passed unmodified,
except those lines between the directives \fB.Ls\fR and \fB.Le\fR.
This mode can be used to format Lisp code that is embedded in a document.
The directive \fB.Ls\fR takes an optional argument that gives the point
size for the embedded code.
If not size is specified,
the size of the surrounding text is used.
.TP
.B \-l
Prevents 
.PN vlp
from placing labels next to functions.
This switch is useful for embedded Lisp code,
where the labels would be distracting.
.TP
.B \-v
Causes 
.PN vlp
to send its output to 
.PN vtroff 
rather than the
standard output.
.TP
.B \-T
Print a title on each page.
The 
.B \-T
option applies only to the next \fIfile\fP given.
Titles are not printed for embedded text (see 
.BR \-f ,
above).
This option may not be used if 
.PN vlp
is reading from the standard input.
.SH Restrictions
.PN vlp 
transforms \\ into \\\\ so that it will be printed out.
Hence, 
.PN troff 
commands cannot be embedded in Lisp code.
.bp
.SH Files
/usr/lib/vlpmacs		troff/nroff macros
.SH See Also
vgrind(1), lisp(1)
