.\" SCCSID: @(#)vpr.1	8.1	9/11/90
.TH vpr 1 VAX "" Unsupported
.SH Name
vpr, vprm, vpq, vprint \- raster printer/plotter spooler
.SH Syntax
.B vpr
[
.B \-W
] [
.B \-l
] [
.B \-v
] [
.B \-t
[
.B \-1234
font ]
] [
.B \-w
] [
\fB\-w\fIwidth\fR
] [
.B \-m
] [ \fIfile\fP ... ]
.br
.B vprm
[
id ...
] [
.I file ...
] [
.I owner ...
]
.br
.B vpq
.br
.B vprint
[
.B \-W
]
.I file ...
.SH Description
The
.PN vpr 
spooler causes the
named \fIfiles\fP
to be queued for printing or typeset simulation on one of the available
raster printer/plotters.
If no \fIfiles\fP are named, the standard input is read.
By default the input is assumed to be line printer-like text.
For very wide plotters, the input is run through the filter
.PN /usr/lib/sidebyside
giving it an argument of
.B \-w106
which arranges it four pages adjacent with 90 column lines (the rest is for the
left margin).  Since there are 8 lines per inch in the default printer font,
.PN vpr
thus produces 86 lines per page (the top and bottom lines are left blank).
.SH Options
.TP 15
.B \-l
Print the input in a more literal manner.
Page breaks are not inserted, and most
control characters (except format effectors: \\n, \\f, etc.)
are printed
(many control characters print
special graphics not in the ASCII character set.)
Tab and underline processing is still done.
If this option is not given,
control characters which are not format effectors are ignored,
and page breaks are inserted after an appropriate number of lines
have been printed on a page.
.TP 15
.B \-W
Queues files for printing on a wide output device, if available.
Normally, files are queued for printing on a narrow output device.
.TP 15
.B \-1234
Specifies a font to be mounted on font position \fIi\fR.  The daemon
will construct a 
.PN \&.railmag
file referencing
.PN /usr/lib/vfont/name.size .
.TP 15
.B \-m
Report by
.IR mail (1)
when printing is complete.
.TP
.B \-w
(Applicable only to wide output devices.)
Do not run the input through
sidebyside.
Such processing has been done already, or full (440 character) printer
width is desired.
.TP
\fB\-w\fIwidth\fR
Use width
.I width
rather than 90 for
.I sidebyside.
.TP
.B \-v
Use the filter
.PN /usr/lib/vrast
to convert the vectors to raster. The named files must be a parameter and
vector file (in that order) created by
.IR plot (3x)
routines.
.TP
.B \-t
Use the filter
.PN /usr/lib/vcat
to typeset the input on the printer/plotter.
The input must have been generated by
.MS troff 1 
run with the
.B \-t
option.
This is not normally run directly
to wide output devices, since it is wasteful to run only one page across.
The program
.MS vtroff 1
is normally used and arranges,
using
.PN vsort
for printing to occur four pages across, conserving paper.
.PP
.PN vprm
removes entries from the raster device queues.
The id, filename or owner should be that reported by
.PN vpq .
All appropriate files will be removed.
Both queues are always searched.
The id of each file removed from the queue will be printed.
.PP
.PN vpq
prints the queues.
Each entry in the queue is printed showing the owner of the queue entry,
an identification number,
the size of the entry in characters,
and the file which is to be printed.
The
.I id
is useful for removing a specific entry from the printer queue using
.PN vprm .
.PP
.PN vprint
is a shell script which
pr's
a copy of each named file on one of the electrostatic printer/plotters.
The files are normally printed on a narrow device;
.B \-W
option causes them to be printed on a wide device.
.SH Restrictions
The 1's (one's) and l's (lower-case el's) in a Benson-Varian's
standard character set look very similar; caution is advised.
.SH Files
.ta 2i
/usr/spool/v?d/*	device spool areas
.br
/usr/lib/v?d	daemons
.br
/usr/lib/vpd	Versatec daemon
.br
/usr/lib/vpf	filter for printer simulation
.br
/usr/lib/*vcat	filter for typeset simulation
.br
/usr/lib/vrast	filter for plot
.br
/usr/lib/sidebyside	filter for wide output
.SH See Also
troff(1), vfont(5), vp(4), pti(1),
vtroff(1), plot(3x)
