.\" SCCSID: @(#)vtroff.1	8.1	9/11/90
.TH vtroff 1 VAX "" Unsupported
.SH Name
vtroff \- troff to a raster plotter
.SH Syntax
.B vtroff
[
.B \-w
] [
\fB\-F\fR majorfont
] [
\fB\-123\fR minorfont
] [
\fB\-l\fIlength\fR
] [
.B \-x
] "\fItroff arguments\fP"
.SH Description
The
.PN vtroff
command runs
.MS troff 1
sending its output through various programs
to produce typeset output on a raster plotter
such as a Benson-Varian or or a Versatec.
The
.B \-W
option specifies that a wide output device be used; the default
is to use a narrow device.
The
.B \-l
(lower case l) option causes the output to be split onto successive pages
every
.I length
inches rather than the default 11''.
.PP
The default font is a Hershey font.  If some other font is desired
you can give a
.B \-F
argument and then the font name.  This will place normal, italic and
bold versions of the font on positions 1, 2, and 3.
To place a font only on a single position, you can give an argument of
the form
.B \-\fIn\fR
and the minor font name.  A \fB.r\fR will be added to the minor
font name if needed.  Thus 
.IP
%
.B vtroff \-ms \fIpaper\fP
.PP
will set a paper
in the Hershey font, while 
.IP
%
.B vtroff \-F nonie \-ms \fIpaper\fP
.PP
will set the paper in the (sans serif) nonie font.
The 
.B \-x
option asks for exact simulation of photo-typesetter output
(that is, using the width tables for the C.A.T. photo-typesetter).
.SH Restrictions
Since some macro packages work correctly only if the fonts
named R, I, B, and S are mounted, and since the Versatec fonts
have different widths for individual characters than the fonts
found on the typesetter, the following dodge was necessary:
If you don't use the ``.fp'' 
.PN troff 
directive
then you get the widths of the standard typesetter fonts
suitable for shipping the output of
troff over the network to the computer center A machine for phototypesetting.
If, however, you remount the R, I, B and S fonts, then you get
the width tables for the Versatec.
.SH Files
.ta 2i
/usr/lib/tmac/tmac.vcat	default font mounts and bug fixes
.br
/usr/lib/fontinfo/*	fixes for other fonts
.br
/usr/lib/vfont	directory containing fonts
.SH See Also
troff(1), vfont(5), vpr(1)
