.\" SCCSID: @(#)vwidth.1	8.1	9/11/90
.TH vwidth 1 VAX "" Unsupported
.SH Name
vwidth \- make troff width table for a font
.SH Syntax
.B vwidth
\fIfontfile pointsize\fP > ft\fIxx\fP.c
.br
.B cc -c ft\fIxx\fP.c
mv ft\fIxx\fP.o /usr/lib/font/ft\fIxx\fP
.SH Description
The
.PN vwidth
command translates from the width information stored in the vfont style
format to the format expected by 
.PN troff .
.PN troff 
wants an object file in a.out(5) format.
(This fact does not seem to be documented anywhere.)
.PN troff 
should look directly in the font file but it doesn't.
.PP
.PN vwidth 
should be used after editing a font with
.MS fed 1 .
It is not necessary to use 
.PN vwidth 
unless you have made a change
that would affect the width tables.
Such changes include numerically editing the width field,
adding a new character,
and moving or copying a character to a new position.
It is
.I not
always necessary to use 
.PN vwidth 
if the physical width of the glyph
(for example, the number of columns in the bit matrix) has changed, but
if it has changed much the logical width should probably be changed
and 
.PN vwidth 
run.
.PP
.PN vwidth 
produces a C program on its standard output.
This program should be run through the C compiler and
the object (that is, the .o file) saved.
The resulting file should be placed in 
.PN /usr/lib/font
in the file
.RI ft xx
where
.II xx
is a one or two letter code that is the logical (internal to 
.PN troff )
font name.
This name can be found by looking in the file
.RI /usr/lib/fontinfo/ fname *
where
.I fname
is the external name of the font.
.SH Restrictions
Produces the C file using obsolete syntax
about which the portable C compiler complains.
.SH See Also
fed(1),
vfont(5),
troff(1),
vtroff(1)
