.ds MA MH
.TH whatnow 1mh
.SH Name
whatnow \- prompting front-end for send
.SH Syntax
.B whatnow
[
.I options
] [
.I file
]
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" ***COMMENTED OUT
.\" .SH Arguments
.\" .IP \fIfile\fR 10
.\" The file on which 
.\" .PN whatnow 
.\" is run.
.\" This argument allows you to specify a named file;
.\" if you want to run
.\" .PN whatnow
.\" on an existing message, use the 
.\" .B \-draftfolder
.\" and
.\" .B \-draftmessage
.\" options.
.\" If you do not give an absolute pathname (one beginning with
.\" a / or \&./ or \&.\&./ ),
.\" .PN whatnow
.\" assumes that the named file is in your current 
.\" working directory.
.\" ***END OF COMMENTS
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Description
.NXR "whatnow command"
After you have finished editing a draft message in
.PN comp ,
.PN dist ,
.PN forw
or
.PN repl , 
the 
.PN whatnow
program prompts you for the next required action.  
Press <Return> at the \f(CWWhat now?\fR prompt 
to see a list of the available responses.  
These responses are:
.EX
display [\fIoptions\fP]
edit [\fIeditor\fP] [\fIoptions\fP]
list [\fIoptions\fP]
push [\fIoptions\fP]
quit [\-delete]
refile [\fIoptions\fP] +folder
.\"
.\" send [\-mts \fImtsname\fP] [\fIoptions\fP]
.\" whom [\-mts \fImtsname\fP] [\fIoptions\fP]
.\"
.\" ***LAST TO LINES REPLACED BY NEXT TWO
.\"
send  [\fIoptions\fP]
whom  [\fIoptions\fP]
.EE
For more information on the options available with 
these commands, see the following reference pages:
.MS refile 1mh ,
.MS send 1mh ,
.MS whom 1mh . 
.PP
Use \f(CWdisplay\fR
if you have been using
.PN repl
or 
.PN dist
and want to see the original message.
Use \f(CWedit\fR
if you want to continue editing the draft.
Use \f(CWlist\fR
to display the draft message.  
If you use \f(CWpush\fR,
.PN send 
operates in the background and frees your terminal 
while the message is being sent.
.PP
Use \f(CWquit\fR
to exit from
.PN whatnow
and to save the draft message.  
The
.B \-delete
option to \f(CWquit\fR
will exit from
.PN whatnow
and delete the draft message.
.PP
Use \f(CWrefile\fR
.I +folder
to refile the draft message in a specified folder.  
The \f(CWsend\fR
response will cause the message to be delivered.  
Use \f(CWwhom\fR
to find out who will receive the mail when it is sent.
.PP
Unless the 
.B \-noedit
option is given,
the editor starts when 
.PN whatnow 
is invoked.
.PP
For the \f(CWedit\fR response,
you can specify an editor if you wish to override
the editor specified in your 
.PN \&.mh_profile
.R
file.
If you specify an editor with the \f(CWedit\fR response, 
any valid option to the editor is valid.
Similarly,
for the \f(CWsend\fR and \f(CWwhom\fR responses,
any valid option to \f(CWsend\fR and \f(CWwhom\fR commands,
respectively, are valid.
.\"
.\"
.\" 
.\" ***COMMENTED OUT
.ig
.PP
You can use the 
.B \-mts 
.I mtsname
option with
.PN send
or
.PN whom
to specify either the X.400 or
non-X.400 transport system.
The
.I mtsname
argument takes one of two forms:
.B \-mts\ x400
indicates that the message is
sent over the X.400 system;
.B \-mts\ smtp
is used for non-X.400 mail.
You can use upper- or lower-case letters,
or a combination of the two.
You cannot send the same message over both X.400 and 
non-X.400 transport systems.
If there is an \f(CWX-mts:\fR
.R
field in the header of the 
draft message, an entry in this field overrides any 
.B \-mts
.I mtsname
option.
See
.MS send 1mh
.R
and
.MS whom 1mh
.R
for more information.
..
.\" ***END OF COMMENTS
.\"
.\"
.\"
.PP
For the \f(CWpush\fR
response,
use any valid option to 
.PN send .
MH invokes 
.PN send
with the 
.B \-push
option.
.PP
For the \f(CWrefile\fR
response,
any valid option to the 
.PN fileproc
is valid.
The
.PN fileproc
is the element of your mail profile
which defines the program used to 
refile messages in another folder.
For more information,
see 
.MS mh_profile 5mh .
.PP
For the \f(CWdisplay\fR
and \f(CWlist\fR
responses,
any valid argument to the 
.PN lproc
is valid.
If any non-option arguments are present,
then the pathname of the draft is excluded 
from the argument list given to the 
.PN lproc
(this is useful for listing another MH message).
The
.PN lproc
is the element in your mail profile which defines 
the program used to display draft messages on your screen.
For more information, see
.MS mh_profile 5mh .
.PP
See 
.MS mh_profile 5mh
for further information
about how editors are used by MH.
It also describes 
.PN lproc 
and
.PN fileproc
and shows how complex variables can be used to direct
the actions performed by
.PN whatnow .
.\" 
.\" ***Info from old Arguments section
.\"
.PP
Although
.PN whatnow
is usually invoked by other commands,
you can use it as a separate command.
You can run 
.PN whatnow 
on a named file by specifying the file as the
.I file 
argument.
If you do not give an absolute pathname (one beginning with
a / or \&./ or \&.\&./ ),
.PN whatnow
assumes that the named file is in your current
working directory.
If you want to run
.PN whatnow
on an existing message, use the
.B \-draftfolder
and
.B \-draftmessage
options.
.\"
.\" ***End of old Arguments stuff
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Options
.IP "\-draftfolder \fI+folder\fR" 10
.PD 0
.IP \-nodraftfolder 10
.PD
Specifies the folder in which 
.PN whatnow
searches for the draft message.
By default, the current message in the named folder 
is used.
If you wish to specify another message, use the
.B \-draftmessage
option.
For more information on using a draft folder, see
.MS comp 1mh .
The
.B \-draftfolder
option can be set up in your user profile;
see
.MS mh_profile 5mh 
for more information.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-draftmessage\ \fImsg\fR
Specifies the draft message to be used.
If you specify a folder with the
.B \-draftfolder 
option, the 
.B \-draftmessage
option takes the number of a message in that folder.
If you do not specify a folder, 
.B \-draftmessage
takes the name of a file.
If you do not give an absolute pathname (one beginning with
a / or \&./ or \&.\&./ ),
.B \-draftmessage 
assumes that the file is located in your Mail directory.
(This is different from the 
.I file
argument to 
.PN whatnow ,
which assumes that the file you name is in your 
current working directory.)
.\"
.\"
.IP \-editor\ \fIeditorname\fR
Specifies the name of the editor you want to use
to edit the draft message.
Any legal ULTRIX editor can be specified.
This option is used only if you select the \f(CWedit\fR
response to the \f(CWWhat now?\fR prompt.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-help
Prints a list of the valid options for this command.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-noedit
Prevents the initial invocation of an editor
when an MH command is run.
Normally, when you enter an MH command such as
.PN comp ,
.PN dist ,
.PN forw ,
or
.PN repl ,
the 
.PN whatnow
program is called to start the initial edit 
of the draft message.
If you add this option to the \f(CWwhatnow\fR
entry in your 
.PN \&.mh_profile ,
the initial edit of the draft message is disabled.
This is a convenient way of disabling this edit 
for all MH commands, rather than adding the
.B \-noedit
entry to the entries for the individual commands in
.PN \&.mh_profile .
.\"
.\"
.IP \-prompt\ \fIstring\fR
Specifies the prompt used by
.PN whatnow .
The prompt you receive when you invoke 
.PN whatnow
can be specified as a string with this option.
If the prompt contains spaces, you must enclose 
the entire string in double quotes (" ").
The default prompt is \f(CWWhat now?\fR
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Restrictions
If the \f(CWsendproc\fR entry in your
.PN \&.mh_profile 
is 
.PN send ,
.PN whatnow
uses a built-in program rather than running the regular
.PN send .
If you define your own \f(CWsendproc\fR program, 
you should not not call it 
.PN send ,
as 
.PN whatnow 
will not run it.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Examples
In the following example,
.PN whatnow
takes the current message in the folder
.PN +drafts ,
and asks what you want to do with it:
.EX
% \f(CBwhatnow -draftfolder +drafts\fR
\f(CWWhat now?
.EE
.PP
In the following example, 
.PN whatnow
takes message 6 from the folder 
.PN +drafts :
.EX
% \f(CBwhatnow -draftfolder +drafts -draftmessage 6
\f(CWWhat now?
.EE
.PP
The following example sets the prompt to be \f(CWNow What?\fR:
.EX
% \f(CBwhatnow -prompt "Now What?"\fR
\f(CWNow what?
.EE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Profile Components
.TS 
tab(+);
l l.
Path:+To determine your MH directory 
Draft-Folder:+To find the default draft folder
Editor:+To override the default editor
\fIlasteditor\fR-next:+To name an editor to be used after 
+exit from \fIlasteditor\fR
fileproc:+Program to refile the message
lproc:+Program to list the contents of a message
sendproc:+Program to send the message
whomproc:+Program to determine who a message would go to
.TE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Files
.TP 10
.PN $HOME/\&.mh_profile
The user profile.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH See Also
comp(1mh), send(1mh), whom(1mh)
