.\" SCCSID: @(#)who.1	8.1	9/11/90
.\" SCCSID: @(#)who.1	8.1	9/11/90
.TH who 1 
.SH Name
who \- print who and where users are logged in 
.SH Syntax
.B who
[\|\fIwho-file\fR\|] [\fBam i\fR]
.SH Description
.NXR "who command"
.NXA "who command" "finger command"
.NXA "who command" "whoami command"
.NXA "who command" "users command"
.NXR "terminal" "showing name"
.NXR "login time" "showing"
.NXR "date" "showing"
.NXR "time" "showing"
.NXR "system" "showing uptime"
.NXR "system" "showing users"
.NXR "run queue" "showing average"
.NXR "system" "showing user activity"
.NXR "process" "printing status"
.NXR "user ID" "showing"
The
.PN who
command,
without an argument,
lists the login name, terminal name, and login time
for each current UNIX user.
.PP
Without an argument,
.PN who
examines the /etc/utmp
file to obtain its information.
If a file is given, that file is examined.
Typically the given file will be /usr/adm/wtmp,
which contains a record of all the logins since it
was created.
Then
.PN who
lists logins, logouts, and crashes since the creation of
the wtmp file.
Each login is listed with user name,
terminal name (with /dev/ suppressed),
and date and time.
When an argument is given,
logouts produce a similar line without a user name.
Reboots produce a line with `~' in the place of the device name,
and a fossil time indicative of when the system went down.
.PP
With two arguments,
as in `who am I' (and also `who are you'),
.PN who
tells who you are logged in as.
.SH Files
/etc/utmp
.SH See Also
getuid(2), utmp(5)
