.TH whom 1mh
.SH Name
whom \- report to whom a message is addressed
.SH Syntax
.B whom
[
.I options
] [
.I file
]
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" ***COMMENTED OUT
.\" .SH Arguments
.\" .IP \fIfile\fR 10
.\" The file on which
.\" .PN whom
.\" is run.
.\" This argument allows you to specify a named file;
.\" if you want to run
.\" .PN whom
.\" on an existing message, use the
.\" .B \-draftfolder
.\" and
.\" .B \-draftmessage
.\" options.
.\" If you do not give an absolute pathname (one beginning with 
.\" a / or \&./ or \&.\&./ ),
.\" .PN whom
.\" assumes that the named file is in your current
.\" working directory.
.\" ***END OF COMMENTS
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Description
.NXR "whom command"
.NXR "listing addressees on a message"
The
.PN whom
command is used to expand the headers of a 
message into a set of addresses,
and optionally to verify that those 
addresses are deliverable at that time
if 
.B \-check
is given.
.PP
The 
.PN whom
command is often invoked as one of the options
offered by the 
.PN whatnow
program when you have finished editing a draft message.
See
.MS whatnow 1mh
for more details.
.\"
.\" ***Info from old Arguments section
.\"
.PP
If you want to run 
.PN whom
on a named file, 
you can supply a
.I file
argument.
This argument allows you to specify a named file;
if you want to run
.PN whom
on an existing message, use the
.B \-draftfolder
and
.B \-draftmessage
options.
If you do not give an absolute pathname (one beginning with
a / or \&./ or \&.\&./ ),
.PN whom
assumes that the named file is in your current
working directory.
.\"
.\" ***End of Arguments stuff
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Options
.IP "\-alias \fIaliasfile\fR" 10
Specifies the alias file to be consulted by
.PN whom .
If you have used one or more aliases in your
message header, 
.PN whom 
will consult the named file to find those aliases,
and will print the full addresses as its output.
You can reference more than one file, 
but each file name must be preceded by the word \fB\-alias\fR.
See 
.MS mh-alias 5mh
for more information.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-check
.PD 0
.IP \-nocheck
.PD
Checks that the addresses are valid.
.PN whom
makes no guarantees that the addresses
listed as being correct are really deliverable:
rather, an address being listed
as correct
means that at the time that 
.PN whom
was run, the address was thought to be deliverable 
by the transport service.
For local addresses, this means that the local user
does exist, and that the address was deliverable at the
time of checking.
For network
.\" X.400 
and uucp addresses, it means that the
syntax of the address is valid.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-draft
Sets the draft message to be the standard 
file 
.PN draft
in your Mail directory.
.\"
.\"
.IP "\-draftfolder\ \fIfolder" 10
.PD 0
.IP \-nodraftfolder 10
.PD
Specifies the folder in which
.PN whom 
searches for the draft message.
The default is to use the current message in the named folder.
You can select another message by using the 
.B \-draftmessage
option.
For more information on using a draft folder, see
.MS comp 1mh .
The
.B \-draftfolder
option is often set up in your user profile;
see
.MS mh_profile 5mh
for more information.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-draftmessage\ \fImsg\fR
Specifies the draft message to be used.
If you specify a folder with the
.B \-draftfolder
option, the 
.B \-draftmessage
option takes the number of a message in that folder.
If you do not specify a folder,
.B \-draftmessage
takes the name of a file.
If you do not give an absolute pathname (one beginning with
a / or \&./ or \&.\&./ ),
.B \-draftmessage
assumes that the file is located in your Mail directory.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-help
Prints a list of the valid options to this command.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" ***COMMENTED OUT
.ig
.IP \-mts\ \fImtsname\fR
Indicates whether addresses to be checked are 
X.400 or non-X.400 addresses.
The 
.B \-mts
option takes one of two values:
.B "\-mts x400"
checks that addresses are in a valid format for 
transport over the X.400 system;
.B "\-mts smtp"
checks that the addresses are deliverable to
non-X.400 users.
You can use upper- or lower-case letters,
or a combination of the two.
If the draft mail message contains an entry in the
\f(CWX-mts:\fR header field, this overrides any 
.B \-mts
option in the command line.
If no 
.B \-mts
option 
or \f(CWX-mts:\fR field is specified, 
the default is to assume non-X.400 addresses.
See 
.MS comp 1mh
for more information.
..
.\" ***END OF COMMENTS
.\"
.\"
.IP "\-mts smtp"
Specifies the format of the addresses to be checked.
The only value allowed is \fBsmtp\fR,
which checks that addresses are deliverable over 
the standard ULTRIX mail system.
Additional values are supported only for use with other
mail systems.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The defaults for this command are:
.IP
.I file
defaults to 
.PN <mh\-dir>/draft
.br
.B \-nocheck
.br
.B "\-alias /usr/lib/mh/MailAliases"
.br
.B "\-mts smtp"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Restrictions
For this version, the
.B \-mts
option only supports the value \fBsmtp\fR.
Additional values are supported for use only with
other mail systems.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Examples
In the following example, 
.PN whom
would use the current message in the 
.PN +drafts
folder:
.EX
% \f(CBwhom \-draftfolder +drafts
\f(CW  smith: address OK
.EE
.PP
In the next example,
.PN whom
searches for message 2 in the folder 
.PN +drafts :
.EX
% \f(CBwhom \-draftfolder +drafts \-draftmessage 2
\f(CW  davis@hostname: address OK
.EE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Profile Components
.TS
tab(+);
l l.
Path:\fR+To determine your MH directory (mh-dir)
Draft-Folder:\fR+To find the default draft-folder
postproc:\fR+Program to post the message
.TE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Files
.TP 10
.PN $HOME/\&.mh_profile
The user profile.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH See Also
comp(1mh), mh-alias(5mh), post(8mh)
