.\" SCCSID: @(#)write.1	8.1	9/11/90
.TH write 1 
.SH Name
write \- write message to another user
.SH Syntax
.B write
\fIuser\fR [\fI\|ttyname\fR\|]
.SH Description
.NXR "write command (general)"
.NXR "message" "copying to another user"
.NXA "write command (general)" "talk program"
.NXA "write command (general)" "wall command"
The
.PN write
command copies lines from your terminal to that of
another user.  When first called, it sends the message
.EX
Message from yoursystem!yourname yourttyname...
.EE
.PP
The recipient of the message should write back at this point.
Communication continues until an end of file is
read from the terminal or an interrupt is sent.
At that point
.PN write
writes `EOT' on the other terminal and exits.
.PP
If you want to write to a user who is logged in more than once,
the
.I ttyname
argument may be used to indicate the
appropriate terminal name.
.PP
Permission to write may be denied or granted by use of the
.I mesg
command.
At the outset writing is allowed.
Certain commands, in particular
.PN nroff
and 
.MS pr 1
disallow messages in order to prevent messy output.
.PP
If the character `!' is found at the beginning of a line,
.PN write
calls the shell to execute the rest of the line as a command.
.PP
The following protocol is suggested for using
.PN write:
when you first write to another user, wait for him to
write back before starting to send.
Each party should end each message with a distinctive
signal. The letter `o' is the convention for `over' which indicates 
that the message is complete.
The letters `oo' are the convention for `over and out' which is used
when the conversation is about to be terminated.
.SH Files
/etc/utmp	to find user
.br
/bin/sh		to execute `!'
.SH See Also
mail(1), mesg(1), who(1)
