.\" Last edited by Kent Jackson. 03/06/90
.\" SCCSID: @(#)yppasswd.1	6.1	4/27/89
.TH yppasswd 1yp
.SH Name
yppasswd \- change password in yellow pages (YP) service.
.SH Syntax
.B yppasswd
[
.I name
]
.SH Description
.NXR  "yppasswd command"  
.NXR  "yellow pages service"  "changing password in"
.NXR  "password"  "changing in yellow pages"  
The
.PN yppasswd
command lets you change your password in the yellow pages (YP) map, a network
data base service.  Only you or the superuser can change your YP
password.
.PP
When you enter the
.PN yppasswd
command, the program prompts you for the old password and then for the
new password. Note that the passwords are not displayed on the screen.  
.PP
Next, the program asks you for the new password again, to
verify that you have typed it correctly.  If you do not type the
passwords correctly, you will receive an error message after you enter
the new password. 
.PP
Your new YP password must meet 
.B one 
of the following requirements:
.RS 3 
.IP \(bu 2  
It must be a combination of at least six alphanumeric characters, 
.B or
.IP \(bu
It must be a minimum of four characters, with at least one being 
non-alphanumeric, such as a control sequence. 
.RE
.NT
The
.PN passwd
command does not change the YP password.  
This command only changes the local
password file
.PN (/etc/passwd),
and not the YP master password file.  See Chapter 3 of the
\fIGuide to the Yellow Pages Service\fP
for further information.
.NE
.SH Diagnostics
.PP
.B "Please use a longer password"
.br
Your new password does not meet the minimum length requirement.
.PP
.B "Mismatch- password unchanged"
.br
You misspelled your new password or its verification.
.PP
.B "couldn't change passwd"
.br
Your new password can not be activated. It must be different from
your old password and your login name.
.SH Files
.TP 15
.PN /etc/passwd
Password file
.TP
.PN /etc/yp
Yellow Pages directory
.SH See Also
passwd(1), passwd(5yp), ypfiles(5yp), yppasswdd(8yp) 
.br
\fIGuide to the Yellow Pages Service\fP
