.TH attroff 3cur 
.SH Name
attroff, attron, attrset, standend, standout, wstandend, wstandout, wattroff,
wattron, wattrset \- attribute manipulation
.SH Syntax
.br
.B
#include <cursesX.h>
.PP
.br
.B
int attroff(attrs)
.br
.B
int attrs;
.PP
.B
int wattroff(win, attrs)
.br
.B
WINDOW \(**win;
.br
.B
int attrs;
.PP
.B
int attron(attrs)
.br
.B
int attrs;
.PP
.B
int wattron(win, attrs)
.br
.B
WINDOW \(**win;
.br
.B
int attrs;
.PP
.B
int attrset(attrs)
.br
.B
int attrs;
.PP
.B
int wattrset(win, attrs)
.br
.B
WINDOW \(**win;
.br
.B
int attrs;
.PP
.B
int standend(\|)
.PP
.B
wstandend(win)
.br
.B
WINDOW \(**win;
.PP
.B
int standout(\|)
.PP
.B
int wstandout(win)
.br
.B
WINDOW \(**win;
.SH Description
.NXR "attroff macro"
.NXR "attron macro"
.NXR "attrset macro"
.NXR "standend subroutine"
.NXR "standout subroutine"
.NXR "wstandend subroutine"
.NXR "wstandout subroutine"
.NXR "wattroff subroutine"
.NXR "wattron subroutine"
.NXR "wattrset subroutine"
These routines manipulate the current attributes of a window.
.PP
The routine
.PN attroff
turns off the named attributes (\c
.PN attrs)
of the default window
without turning any other attributes on or off.
.PP
The routine
.PN attron
turns on the named attributes 
of the default window
without affecting any other attributes.
.PP
The routine
.PN attrset
sets the current attributes of the default window to
the named attributes
.PN attrs ,
which is of the type
.PN chtype , 
and is defined in the 
.PN <cursesX.h> 
header file.
.PP
The routine
.PN standout
switches on the best highlighting mode available on the terminal
for the default window and it is
functionally the same as
.PN attron(A_STANDOUT).
.PP
The routine
.PN standend
switches off all highlighting associated with the default window.
It is functionally the same as 
.PN attrset (0),
in that it turns off all attributes.
.PP
The routine
.PN wattroff
switches off the named attributes,
.PN attrs ,
for the specified window.
Other attributes are not changed.
.PP
The routine
.PN wattron
turns on the named attributes 
of the specified window
without affecting any others.
.PP
The routine
.PN wattrset
sets the current attributes of the specified window to
.PN attrs .
.PP
The routine
.PN wstandout
switches on the best highlighting mode available on the terminal
for the specified window.
Functionally it is the same as
.PN wattron(A_STANDOUT).
.PP
The routine
.PN wstandend
switches off all highlighting associated with the specified window.
Functionally it
is the same as 
.PN wattrset (0);
that is, it turns off all attributes.
.SH Attributes
.PP
Attributes can be any combination of
A_STANDOUT,
A_REVERSE,
A_BOLD,
A_DIM,
A_BLINK 
and
A_UNDERLINE.
These constants are defined in the 
.PN <cursesX.h>
header file.
They are also described  
in the 
.I
Guide to X/Open Curses Screen-Handling.
.R
Attributes
can be combined with the C language | 
.PN (or)
operator.
.PP
The current attributes of a window are applied to all characters that
are written into the window with 
.PN addch 
or
.PN waddch  .
Attributes are properties of the character, 
and move with the character
through any scrolling and insert/delete line/character operations.
Within the restrictions set by the terminal hardware
they will be
displayed as the graphic rendition of characters put on the screen.
.PP
The routines
.PN attroff, 
.PN attron
and 
.PN attrset
are macros.
.SH Return Values
The
.PN attroff ,
.PN wattroff ,
.PN attron ,
.PN wattron ,
.PN attrset ,
.PN wattrset ,
.PN standend ,
.PN wstandend ,
.PN standout ,
and
.PN wstandout 
functions return OK on success and ERR on error.
.SH See Also
addch(3cur) 
.br
.I "Guide to X/Open Curses Screen-Handling"
