.TH catopen 3int
.SH Name
catopen, catclose \- open/close a message catalog
.SH Syntax
.B #include <nl_types.h>
.PP
.B nl_catd catopen (\fIname\fP, \fIoflag\fP)
.br
.B char *name;
.br
.B int oflag;
.PP
.B int catclose (\fIcatd\fP)
.br
.B nl_catd catd;
.SH Description
.NXR "catopen subroutine"
.NXR "catclose subroutine"
The function
.PN catopen
opens a message catalog and returns a catalog descriptor.
The parameter
.I name
specifies the name of the message catalog to be opened.
If
.I name
contains a slash (/), then
.I name
specifies a pathname for the message catalog.
Otherwise, the environment variable
.PN NLSPATH
is used with
.I name
substituted for
.I %N. 
For more information, see
.MS environ 5int 
in the 
.I ULTRIX Reference Pages. 
If
.PN NLSPATH
does not exist in the environment, or if a message catalog cannot be opened 
in any of the paths specified by
.PN NLSPATH ,
the current directory is used.
.PP
The
.I oflag
is reserved for future use and must be set to zero (0).
The results of setting this field to any other value are undefined.
.PP
The function
.PN catclose
closes the message catalog identified by
.PN catd .
.SH Restrictions
Using
.PN catopen
causes another file descriptor to be allocated by the calling process 
for the duration of the
.PN catopen
call.
.SH Return Values
If successful,
.PN catopen
returns a message catalog descriptor for use on subsequent calls to
.PN catgetmsg ,
.PN catgets
and
.PN catclose .
If unsuccessful,
.PN catopen
returns (\c
.PN nl_catd\c
)-1.
.PP
The
.PN catclose
function returns 0 if successful, otherwise \-1.
.SH See Also
intro(3int), setlocale(3), catgetmsg(3int), catgets(3int), environ(5int), 
nl_types(5int)
.br
.I Guide to Developing International Software
