.TH error_c_get_text 3ncs
.SH Name
error_c_get_text \- return subsystem, module, and error texts for a status code
.SH Syntax
void error_$c_get_text(\fIstatus, subsys, subsysmax, module, modulemax\fP,
\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\fIerror, errormax\fP)
.nf
status_$t \fIstatus\fP;
char *\fIsubsys\fP;
long \fIsubsysmax\fP;
char *\fImodule\fP;
long \fImodulemax\fP;
char *\fIerror\fP;
long \fIerrormax\fP;
.fi
.\".SH SYNOPSIS (PASCAL)
.\".DS\" \fB%include '/usr/include/idl/pas/[].ins.pas'\fR
.\"\fBprocedure error_$c_get_text(\fR
.\"	\fBin \fIstatus\fB: status_$t;\fR
.\"	\fBout \fIsubsys\fB: univ char;\fR
.\"	\fBin \fIsubsysmax\fB: integer32;\fR
.\"	\fBout \fImodule\fB: univ char;\fR
.\"	\fBin \fImodulemax\fB: integer32;\fR
.\"	\fBout \fIerror\fB: univ char;\fR
.\"	\fBin \fIerrormax\fB: integer32);\fR
.\".DE
.SH Arguments
.TP 15
\fIstatus\fR
A status code in \fBstatus_$t\fR format.
.TP 15
\fIsubsys\fR
A character string.
The subsystem represented by the status code.
.TP 15
\fIsubsysmax\fR
The maximum number of bytes to be returned in \fIsubsys\fR.
.TP 15
\fImodule\fR
A character string.
The module represented by the status code.
.TP 15
\fImodulemax\fR
The maximum number of bytes to be returned in \fImodule\fR.
.TP 15
\fIerror\fR
A character string.
The error represented by the status code.
.TP 15
\fIerrormax\fR
The maximum number of bytes to be returned in \fIerror\fR.
.SH Description
The 
.PN error_$c_get_text
routine returns predefined text strings that describe
the subsystem, the module, and the error represented by a status code.
The strings are null terminated.  See the
.MS intro 3ncs
reference page which lists all of the possible diagnostics that could be returned in
.PN status.all .
.NXR "error_c_get_text"
.SH Files
.PN /usr/lib/stcode.db
.SH See Also
intro(3ncs)
