.TH getauthuid 3x 
.SH Name
getauthuid, getauthent, 
storeauthent, setauthent, setauthfile, endauthent \- get/set auth entry
.SH Syntax
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.B #include <auth.h>
.PP
.B AUTHORIZATION *getauthuid(\fIuid\fP)
.B uid_t \fIuid\fP;
.PP
.B AUTHORIZATION *getauthent()
.PP
.B int storeauthent(\fIauth\fP)
.B AUTHORIZATION *\fIauth\fP;
.PP
.B void setauthent()
.PP
.B void setauthfile(\fIpathname\fP)
.B char *\fIpathname\fP;
.PP
.B int endauthent()
.fi
.SH Description
.NXR "getauthuid routine"
.NXR "getauthent routine"
.NXR "storeauthent routine"
.NXR "setauthent routine"
.NXR "setauthfile routine"
.NXR "endauthent routine"
.NXR "auth database (general)" "getting/setting entry"
.PP
The
.PN getauthuid
function 
looks up the auth entry for the specified user ID
and returns a pointer to a static area containing it.
.PP
The 
.PN getauthent
function 
retrieves the next sequential entry from the auth database and
returns a pointer to a static area containing it.
.PP
The
.PN storeauthent
function stores the specified auth entry into the
local auth database, overwriting any existing entry with the
same \fIa_uid\fP field.
.PP
The 
.PN setauthent
function sets a pointer to the beginning of the auth database.
This function is used with
.PN getauthent
to make multiple passes through the auth database.
.PP
The
.PN setauthfile
function sets the pathname of the file to be used for the
local auth database in all subsequent operations.
.PP
The
.PN endauthent
function closes the auth database.  Subsequent calls to
getauthuid, getauthent, or storeauthent reopen it.
.PP
The auth database can be distributed via the BIND/Hesiod
naming service.
.SH Restrictions
Only the superuser and members of the group
.I authread
may read information from the auth database.
.PP
Only the superuser may modify the auth database.
.PP
The auth database cannot be distributed via the Yellow Pages service.
.PP
When the auth database is served by BIND/Hesiod, a program must perform
its own Kerberos
initialization prior to using any of these
functions.
.PP
The values returned by 
.PN getauthent
and 
.PN getauthuid
point to a static area which is overwritten when subsequent calls are made.
.SH Return Values
Functions which return a pointer value return the
null pointer
(0) on EOF or error.
Other functions return zero (0) on success and a negative value
on failure.
.SH Files
.PN /etc/auth.[pag,dir]
.SH See Also
getpwent(3), auth(5), edauth(8)
.br
\fISecurity Guide for Users\fP
.br
\fISecurity Guide for Administrators\fP
.br
\fIGuide to the BIND/Hesiod Service\fP
