.TH getauthuid 3 
.SH Name
getauthuid, storeauthent, setauthfile, endauthent \- get/set auth entry
.SH Syntax
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.B #include <auth.h>
.PP
.B AUTHORIZATION *getauthuid(\fIuid\fP)
.B uid_t \fIuid\fP;
.PP
.B int storeauthent(\fIauth\fP)
.B AUTHORIZATION *\fIauth\fP;
.PP
.B void setauthfile(\fIpathname\fP)
.B char *\fIpathname\fP;
.PP
.B int endauthent()
.fi
.SH Description
.NXR "getauthuid subroutine"
.NXR "storeauthent subroutine"
.NXR "setauthfile subroutine"
.NXR "endauthent subroutine"
.NXR "auth database (general)" "getting/setting entry"
.PP
The
.PN getauthuid
function looks up the auth entry for the specified user ID
and returns a pointer to a static area containing it.
.PP
The
.PN storeauthent
function will store the specified auth entry into the
local auth database, overwriting any existing entry with the
same \fIa_uid\fP field.
.PP
The
.PN setauthfile
function will set the pathname of the file to be used for the
local auth database in all subsequent operations.
.PP
The
.PN endauthent
functions closes the auth database.  Subsequent calls to
getauthuid and storeauthent will reopen it.
.PP
The auth database may be distributed via the BIND/Hesiod
naming service.
.SH Restrictions
Only the super-user and members of the group
.I authread
may read information from the auth database.
.PP
Only the super-user may modify the auth database.
.PP
The auth databse may not be distributed via the Yellow Pages service.
.SH Return Values
Functions which return a pointer value will return the
null pointer
(0) on EOF or error.
Other functions will return zero (0) on success and a negative value
on failure.
.SH Files
.PN /etc/auth.[pag,dir]
.SH See Also
getpwent(3), auth(5), edauth(8)
.br
\fISecurity Guide for Users and Programmers\fP
.br
\fISecurity Guide for Administrators\fP
.br
\fIGuide to the BIND/Hesiod Service\fP
