./" new manpage created for FT2 of V4.0       20 dec, 1989  (JM)
.TH hesiod 3
.SH Name
hes_init, hes_to_bind, hes_error, hes_resolve - routines for using
Hesiod 
.SH Syntax
.nf
.B #include <hesiod.h>
.PP   
.B hes_init()
.PP
.B char *hes_to_bind(\fIHesiodName\fP, \fIHesiodNameType\fP)
.br
.B char *\fIHesiodName\fP, *\fIHesiodNameType\fP;
.PP
.B hes_error()
.PP
.B har **hes_resolve(\fIHesiodName\fP, \fIHesiodNameType\fP)
.br
.B char *\fIHesiodName\fP, *\fIHesiodNameType\fP;
.fi
.SH Description
.NXR "hesiod"
.NXR "hes_init routine"
.NXR "hes_to_bind routine"
.NXR "hes_error routine"
.NXR "hes_resolve routine"
The 
.PN "hes_init()"
routine opens and reads the Hesiod
configuration file, 
.PN "/etc/hesiod.conf" 
to extract the left
hand side and right hand side of the Hesiod name.
.PP
The 
.PN "hes_to_bind()" 
routine takes as arguments a 
.PN HesiodName 
and
.PN HesiodNameType 
and returns a fully qualified name to be 
handed to BIND.
.PP
The two most useful routines to the applications programmer are
.PN "hes_error()" 
and 
.PN "hes_resolve()."  
The 
.PN "hes_error()" 
routine has no
arguments and returns an integer which corresponds to a set of errors
which can be found in 
.PN "hesiod.h" 
file.
.EX 0
#define HES_ER_UNINIT           \-1
.sp 
#define HES_ER_OK                0
.sp
#define HES_ER_NOTFOUND          1
.sp
#define HES_ER_CONFIG            2
.sp
#define HES_ER_NET               3
.EE
.PP
The 
.PN "hes_resolve()" 
routine resolves given names via the Hesiod name
server.  It takes as arguments a name to be resolved, the 
.PN HesiodName ,
and a type corresponding to the name, the 
.PN HesiodNameType ,
and returns
a pointer to an array of strings which contains all data that matched
the query, one match per array slot.  The array is null terminated.
.PP
If applications require the data to be maintained throughout multiple
calls to 
.PN "hes_resolve()," 
the data should be copied since another call
to 
.PN "hes_resolve()" 
will overwrite any previously-returned data.  A null
is returned if the data cannot be found.
.SH Examples
The following example shows the use of the Hesiod 
routines to obtain a Hesiod name from a Hesiod database:
.EX
#include <hesiod.h>
.sp
char *HesiodName, *HesiodNameType;
char **hp;
.sp
hp = hes_resolve(HesiodName, HesiodNameType);
if (hp == NULL) {
	error = hes_error();
	switch(error) {
			.
			.
			.
		}
	}
	else 
		process(hp);
.EE
.SH Files
.PN /etc/hesiod.conf
.br 
.PN /usr/include/hesiod.h
.SH See Also
hesiod.conf(5), bindsetup(8)
.br
.I Guide to the BIND/Hesiod Service
