.TH ieee 3m RISC
.ds nn \fINaN\fR
.SH Name
copysign, drem, finite, logb, scalb \- copysign, remainder,
exponent manipulations
.SH Syntax
.nf
.B #include <math.h>
.PP
.B double copysign(x,y)
.B double x,y;
.PP
.B double drem(x,y)
.B double x,y;
.PP
.B int finite(x)
.B double x;
.PP
.B double logb(x)
.B double x;
.PP
.B double scalb(x,n)
.B double x;
.B int n;
.fi
.SH Description
These functions are required, or recommended by the IEEE standard
754 for floating\-point arithmetic.
.PP
The 
.PN copysign
function 
returns x with its sign changed to y's.
.PP
The 
.PN drem(x,y)
function returns the remainder r := x \- n\(**y
where n is the integer nearest the exact value of x/y.  Additionally
if |\|n\|\-\|x/y|\|=\|1/2, then n is even.  Consequently
the remainder is computed exactly and |\|r| \(<= |\|y|/2.  Note
that 
.PN drem(x,0) 
is the exception (see Diagnostics).
.PP
.nf
.ta \w'Finite(x)'u+1n +\w'= 0 otherwise'u+1n
.if n \
Finite(x)	= 1 just when \-infinity < x < +infinity,
.if t \
Finite(x)	= 1 just when \-\(if < x < +\(if,
.if n \
	= 0 otherwise	(when |\|x| = infinity or x is \*(nn)
.if t \
	= 0 otherwise	(when |\|x| = \(if or x is \*(nn)
.ta
.fi
.PP
The 
.PN logb(x) returns x's exponent n ,
a signed integer converted to double\-precision floating\-point and so
chosen that 1\0\(<=\0|\|x|/2**n\0<\02 unless x = 0 or
.if n \
|\|x| = infinity
.if t \
|\|x| = \(if
or x lies between 0 and the Underflow Threshold.
.PP
Scalb(x,n) = x\(**(2**n) computed, for integer n, without first computing
2**N.
.SH Diagnostics
IEEE 754 defines drem(x,0) and
.if n \
drem(infinity,y)
.if t \
drem(\(if,y)
to be invalid operations that produce a \*(nn.
.PP
IEEE 754 defines
.if n \
logb(\(+-infinity) = +infinity and logb(0) = \-infinity,
.if t \
logb(\(+-\(if) = +\(if and logb(0) = \-\(if, and
requires the latter to signal Division\-by\-Zero.
.SH Restrictions
IEEE 754 currently specifies that
logb(denormalized no.) = logb(tiniest normalized no. > 0)
but the consensus has changed to the specification in the new 
proposed IEEE standard p854, namely that logb(x) satisfy 
.RS
1 \(<= scalb(|\|x|,\-logb(x)) < Radix\0\0\0... = 2 for IEEE 754
.RE
for every x except 0, 
.if n \
infinity
.if t \
\(if
and \*(nn.
Almost every program that assumes 754's specification will work
correctly if logb follows 854's specification instead.
.PP
IEEE 754 requires copysign(x,\*(nn) = \(+-x  but says nothing
else about the sign of a \*(nn.
.SH See Also
floor(3M), fp_class(3), math(3M)
