.TH krb_get_lrealm 3krb
.SH Name
krb_get_lrealm \- Host/realm identification routines.
.SH Syntax
.nf
.nj
 \fB#include <krb.h>
 #include <des.h>
.PP
 \fBkrb_get_lrealm\fP (\fIrealm, n\fP)
 \fBchar\fP \fI*realm\fP;
 \fBint\fP  \fIn\fP;
.ig ++
#include <netinet/in.h>\fP
.PP
 \fBchar *krb_realmofhost\fP (\fIhost\fP)
 \fBchar\fP \fI*host\fP;
.++
.PP
 \fBchar *krb_get_phost\fP (\fIalias\fP)
 \fBchar\fP \fI*alias\fP;
.ig ++
.PP
 \fBkrb_get_krbhst\fP (\fIhost, realm, n\fP)
 \fBchar\fP \fI*host\fP;
 \fBchar\fP \fI*realm\fP;
 \fBint\fP \fIn\fP;
.PP
 \fBkrb_get_admhst\fP (\fIhost, realm, n\fP)
 \fBchar\fP \fI*host\fP;
 \fBchar\fP \fI*realm\fP;
 \fBint\fP  \fIn\fP;
.++
.PP
.fi
.SH Arguments
.ig ++
.TP 9
.I host
Identifies a host for a particular realm.
.++
.TP
.I alias
Identifies a host whose name is to be converted to an instance name.
The \fIalias\fP string is overwritten with the instance 
name.  The \fIalias\fP string must be stored in a buffer of at least
INST_SZ characters. 
.TP
.I realm
Identifies a specific realm.
.TP
.I n
Specifies a specific position in a series of Kerberos hosts; must be set to 0.
.SH Description
.NXR "Kerberos routines" "krb_get_lrealm"
.NXR "Kerberos routines" "krb_get_phost"
The routines of
.ig ++
.PN krb_realmofhost
.++
.PN krb_get_lrealm
allow an application to obtain information on host/realm
relationships in a Kerberos network.  The routines of this library are:
.ig ++
.IP krb_realmofhost
Returns the Kerberos realm of the host identified by the pointer
\fI*host\fP as determined by the translation file \f(CWkrb_realms\fP.
The name you enter for host should be the fully qualified domain-style
primary host name of the host.  To prevent security attacks,
this routine must already know the realm of the
host or obtain this information securely.
.IP
The format of the translation file is described in the 
.PN krb.realms(5krb)
reference page.  If \fIhost\fP matches either a \fIhost_name\fP line or
a \fIdomain_name\fP line of the \f(CWkrb.realms\fP file, then the
corresponding realm is returned.
.br
.ne 4
.++
.IP krb_get_phost
Converts the hostname pointed to by \fIalias\fP, which can be either an
official name or an alias, into the instance name to be used in
obtaining Kerberos tickets.
.ig ++
.IP krb_get_krbhst
Initializes \fIhost\fP with the hostname of the \fIn\fPth host running
a Kerberos key distribution center (KDC) for the realm pointed to by
\fIrealm\fP. The host configuration file is described by the file
.PN krb.conf .
If 
.PN krb_get_krbhst 
successfully initializes
\fIhost\fP, the routine returns KSUCCESS. 
.IP
If the configuration file cannot be opened, and \fIn\fP equals 1, then
.PN krb_get_krbhst
initializes \fIhost\fP with the value of the
constant \fBKRB_HOST\fP (defined in 
.PN krb.h ) 
and returns
KSUCCESS.  If there are fewer that \fIn\fP hosts running a Kerberos KDC
for the requested realm, or the configuration file is damaged, then
.PN krb_get_krbhst
returns KFAILURE. 
.IP krb_get_admhst
Initializes \fIhost\fP with the hostname of the \fIn\fPth host running
a Kerberos KDC database administration server for the realm pointed to
by \fIrealm\fP as specified in the configuration file 
.PN krb.conf .
If 
.PN krb_get_admhst
cannot open the configuration file or finds
that the file is damaged, it returns KFAILURE.
.IP
Note that the character arrays used as return values of the
.PN krb_get_krbhst
and
.PN krb_get_admhst
routines should be
large enough to hold the maximum host name.
determined by the constant
MAXHOSTNAMLEN, which is defined in the
.PN param.h
file.
.++
.IP krb_get_lrealm
Initializes \fIrealm\fP with the \fIn\fPth realm of the local host. The
argument \fIrealm\fP should be large enough to contain the maximum
realm name determined by the constant REALM_SZ.  The local realm name is
stored in the
.PN /etc/krb.conf
file.  See the 
.PN krb.conf(5krb)
reference page.
.SH Files
.ig ++
.TP
.PN krb.realms
.++
.TP
.PN /etc/krb.conf
.SH See Also
kerberos(3krb), krb.conf(5krb)
