.TH ldgetaux 3x RISC
.SH Name
ldgetaux \- retrieve an auxiliary entry, given an index
.SH Syntax
.nf
.B "#include <stdio.h>"
.B "#include <filehdr.h>"
.B "#include <sym.h>"
.B "#include <ldfcn.h>"
.fi
.sp
.nf
.BR "pAUXU ldgetaux (" "ldptr, iaux" )
.BR "LDFILE \**" ldptr ;
.BR "long \**" iaux ;
.fi
.SH Description
The
.PN ldgetaux
function returns a pointer to an auxiliary table entry associated with 
.I iaux.
The AUXU is contained in a static buffer.  Because the buffer can be 
overwritten by later calls to 
.PN ldgetaux , 
it must be copied by the caller if the aux is to be saved or changed.
.PP
Note that auxiliary entries are not swapped as this routine cannot detect
what manifestation of the AUXU union is retrieved. 
If LDAUXSWAP(ldptr, ldf) is non-zero,
a further call to
.I swap_aux
is required.  Before calling the 
.I swap_aux routine, the caller should copy the aux.
.PP
If the auxiliary cannot be retrieved, 
.PN ldgetaux 
returns null (defined in <stdio.h>) for an object file.
This occurs in the following instances:
.IP \(bu 5
The auxiliary table cannot be found
.IP \(bu 5
The 
.I iaux 
offset into the auxiliary table is beyond the end of the table
.PP
Typically, 
.PN ldgetaux 
is called immediately after a successful call to 
.PN ldtbread 
to retrieve the data type information associated with the symbol table 
entry filled by 
.PN ldtbread . 
The index field of the symbol, pSYMR, is the 
.I iaux 
when data type information is required. If the data type information for a 
symbol is not present, the index field is 
.I indexNi 
and 
.PN ldgetaux 
should not be called.
.SH See Also
intro(3x), ldclose(3x), ldopen(3x), ldtbseek(3x), ldtbread(3x),
ldfcn(5).
