.\"	@(#)pfm_signal.3ncs	8.1 of 9/11/90
.TH pfm_signal 3ncs
.SH Name
pfm_signal \- signal the calling process
.SH Syntax
.nf
#include <idl/c/base.h>
#include <idl/c/pfm.h>

void pfm_$signal(\fIfault_signal\fR)
status_$t \fI*fault_signal\fR;
.fi
.\".SH SYNOPSIS (PASCAL)
.\".DS
.\"\fB%include '/sys/ins/base.ins.pas';\fR
.\"\fB%include '/sys/ins/pfm.ins.pas';\fR
.\"
.\"\fBprocedure pfm_$signal(in \fIfault_signal\fB: status_$t);\fR
.\".DE
.ig
.SH Synopsis (fortran)
.nf
\fB%include '/sys/ins/base.ins.ftn'\fR
\fB%include '/sys/ins/pfm.ins.ftn'\fR

	 \fBinteger*4 \fIfault_signal\fR

	 \fBcall pfm_$signal(\fIfault_signal\fB)\fR
.fi
..
.SH Arguments
.TP 20 
\fIfault_signal\fR
A fault code.
.SH Description
The 
.PN pfm_$signal
routine signals the fault specified by 
.I fault_signal
to the calling process.
It is usually called to leave clean-up handlers.
.NXR "Fault Management" "pfm_signal"
.SH Diagnostics 
This section lists status codes for errors returned by this
.PN pfm_$
routine. 
.TP 20
\fBpfm_$bad_rls_order\fR
Attempted to release a clean-up handler out of order.
.TP 20
\fBpfm_$cleanup_not_found\fR
There is no pending clean-up handler.
.TP 20
\fBpfm_$cleanup_set\fR
A clean-up handler was established successfully.
.TP 20
\fBpfm_$cleanup_set_signalled\fR
Attempted to use \fBpfm_$cleanup_set\fR as a signal.
.TP 20
\fBpfm_$invalid_cleanup_rec\fR
Passed an invalid clean-up record to a routine.
.TP 20
\fBpfm_$no_space\fR
Cannot allocate storage for a clean-up handler.
.NT
This routine does not return when successful.
.NE
.SH Files
.PN /usr/include/idl/c/base.h
.br
.PN /usr/include/idl/base.idl
.br
.PN /usr/include/idl/c/pfm.h
.SH See Also
intro(3ncs)
.ig
.SH See Also
pfm_error_trap
..
.\".DM "\
.\"path syscalls/pfm/pfm_$signal\
.\"type reference\
.\"book syscalls\
.\"chapter pfm\
.\"section pfm_$signal\
.\""
.\".DD "\
.\"exit(ed)(s)(ing) current procedure(s) signal(ed)(s)(ing) clean-up cleanup clean(ed)(s)(ing)\
.\" up handler(s) pfm pfm_$\
.\""
