.\"	@(#)pfm_rls_cleanup.3ncs	8.1 of 9/11/90
.TH pfm_rls_cleanup 3ncs
.SH Name
pfm_rls_cleanup \- release clean-up handlers
.SH Syntax
.nf
#include <idl/c/base.h>
#include <idl/c/pfm.h>

void pfm_$rls_cleanup(\fIcleanup_record, status)\fP
pfm_$cleanup_rec *\fIcleanup_record\fP;
status_$t *\fIstatus\fP;
.fi
.\".SH SYNOPSIS (PASCAL)
.\".DS
.\"\fB%include '/sys/ins/base.ins.pas';\fR
.\"\fB%include '/sys/ins/pfm.ins.pas';\fR
.\"
.\"\fBprocedure pfm_$rls_cleanup(\fR
.\"	\fBin \fIcleanup_record\fB: pfm_$cleanup_rec;\fR
.\"	\fBout \fIstatus\fB: status_$t);\fR
.\".DE
.ig
.SH Synopsis (fortran)
.nf
\fB%include '/sys/ins/base.ins.ftn'\fR
\fB%include '/sys/ins/pfm.ins.ftn'\fR

	 \fBinteger*4 \fIcleanup_record\fB(16), \fIstatus\fR

	 \fBcall pfm_$rls_cleanup(\fIcleanup_record\fB, \fIstatus\fB)\fR
.fi
..
.SH Arguments
.TP 20
\fIcleanup_record\fR
The clean-up record for the first clean-up handler to release.
.TP 20
\fIstatus\fR
The completion status.
If \fIstatus\fR is \fBpfm_$bad_rls_order\fR,
it means that the caller attempted to release a clean-up handler
before releasing all handlers established after it.
This status is only a warning;
the intended clean-up handler is released, along with all clean-up handlers
established after it.   
If the completion status returned in
.PN status\&.all
is equal to \fBstatus_$ok\fR, then the routine that supplied it was successful.
.RE
.SH Description
The 
.PN pfm_$rls_cleanup
routine releases the clean-up handler
associated with 
.I cleanup_record
and all clean-up handlers established after it.
.NXR "Fault Management" "pfm_rls_cleanup"
.SH Diagnostics 
This section lists the status codes for errors returned by this 
.PN pfm_$
routine in
.PN status\&.all .
.TP 20
\fBpfm_$bad_rls_order\fR
Attempted to release a clean-up handler out of order.
.TP 20
\fBpfm_$cleanup_not_found\fR
There is no pending clean-up handler.
.TP 20
\fBpfm_$cleanup_set\fR
A clean-up handler was established successfully.
.TP 20
\fBpfm_$cleanup_set_signalled\fR
Attempted to use \fBpfm_$cleanup_set\fR as a signal.
.br
.ne 3
.TP 20
\fBpfm_$invalid_cleanup_rec\fR
Passed an invalid clean-up record to a routine.
.\".DM "\
.\"path syscalls/pfm/pfm_$rls_cleanup\
.\"type reference\
.\"book syscalls\
.\"chapter pfm\
.\"section pfm_$rls_cleanup\
.\""
.\".DD "\
.\"releas(ed)(s)(ing) clean-up cleanup clean(ed)(s)(ing) up handler(s) fault(s) handle(ed)(s)(ing)\
.\"pfm pfm_$\
.\""
.SH Files
.PN /usr/include/idl/c/base.h
.br
.PN /usr/include/idl/base.idl
.br
.PN /usr/include/idl/c/pfm.h
.SH See Also
intro(3ncs)
