.\"	@(#)pfm_enable_faults.3ncs	8.1 of 9/11/90
.TH pfm_enable_faults 3ncs
.SH Name
pfm_enable_faults \- enable asynchronous faults
.SH Syntax
.nf
#include <idl/c/base.h>
#include <idl/c/pfm.h>

void pfm_$enable_faults()
.fi
.\".SH SYNOPSIS (PASCAL)
.\".DS
.\"\fB%include '/sys/ins/base.ins.pas';\fR
.\"\fB%include '/sys/ins/pfm.ins.pas';\fR
.\"
.\"\fBprocedure pfm_$enable_faults;\fR
.\".DE
.ig
.SH Synopsis (fortran)
.nf
\fB%include '/sys/ins/base.ins.ftn'\fR
\fB%include '/sys/ins/pfm.ins.ftn'\fR

	 \fBcall pfm_$enable_faults\fR
.fi
..
.SH Description
The 
.PN pfm_$enable_faults
routine enables asynchronous faults
after they have been inhibited
by a call to 
.PN pfm_$inhibit_faults;
.PN pfm_$enable_faults
causes the operating system
to pass asynchronous faults on to the calling process.
.PP
While faults are inhibited,
the operating system holds
at most one asynchronous fault.
Consequently,
when 
.PN pfm_$enable_faults
returns, there can be at most one fault
waiting on the process.
If more than one fault was received
between routines to 
.PN pfm_$inhibit_faults
and 
.PN pfm_$enable_faults ,
the process receives the first asynchronous fault received
while faults were inhibited.
.NXR "Fault Management" "pfm_enable_faults"
.SH Diagnostics 
This section lists the status codes for errors returned by this
.PN pfm_$
routine.
.TP 20
\fBpfm_$bad_rls_order\fR
Attempted to release a clean-up handler out of order.
.TP 20
\fBpfm_$cleanup_not_found\fR
There is no pending clean-up handler.
.TP 20
\fBpfm_$cleanup_set\fR
A clean-up handler was established successfully.
.TP 20
\fBpfm_$cleanup_set_signalled\fR
Attempted to use \fBpfm_$cleanup_set\fR as a signal.
.TP 20
\fBpfm_$invalid_cleanup_rec\fR
Passed an invalid clean-up record to a routine.
.TP 20
\fBpfm_$no_space\fR
Cannot allocate storage for a clean-up handler.
.SH Files
.PN /usr/include/idl/c/base.h
.br
.PN /usr/include/idl/base.idl
.br
.PN /usr/include/idl/c/pfm.h
.SH See Also
intro(3ncs), pfm_enable(3ncs), pfm_inhibit_faults(3ncs)
.\".DM "\
.\"path syscalls/pfm/pfm_$enable_faults\
.\"type reference\
.\"book syscalls\
.\"chapter pfm\
.\"section pfm_$enable_faults\
.\""
.\".DD "\
.\"enable(ed)(s)(ing) asyn(chronous) fault(s) pfm pfm_$\
.\""
