.TH rpc_unregister 3ncs
.SH Name
rpc_unregister \- unregister an interface (server only)
.SH Syntax
.nf
#include <idl/c/rpc.h>

void rpc_$unregister(\fIifspec, status\fP)
rpc_$if_spec_t *\fIifspec\fP;
status_$t *\fIstatus\fP;
.fi
.\".SH SYNOPSIS (PASCAL)
.\".DS
.\"\fB%include '/usr/include/idl/pas/rpc.ins.pas'\fR
.\"
.\"\fBprocedure rpc_$unregister(\fR
.\"	\fBin \fIifspec\fB: rpc_$if_spec_t;\fR
.\"	\fBout \fIstatus\fB: status_$t);\fR
.\".DE
.SH Arguments
.TP 20
\fIifspec\fR
An \fBrpc_$if_spec_t\fR.
An interface specifier obtained from a previous RPC register call.  The
interface being unregistered. 
.TP 20
\fIstatus\fR
The completion status.
If the completion status returned in
.PN status\&.all
is equal to
.B status_$ok ,
then the routine that supplied it was successful.
.SH Description
The 
.PN rpc_$unregister
routine unregisters an interface that the server previously registered with the RPC runtime library.
.NXR "Interface to the Remote Procedure Call" "rpc_unregister" 
After an interface is unregistered,
the RPC runtime library will not pass requests
for that interface to the server.
.PP
If a server uses several
.PN rpc_$register
or
.PN rpc_$register_mgr
routines to register an interface more than once, then it must call 
.PN rpc_$unregister
an equal number of times to unregister the interface.
.SH Examples
The following statement unregisters a matrix arithmetic interface:
.EX
rpc_$unregister (&matrix_$if_spec, &status);
.EE
.SH Diagnostics
This section lists status codes for errors returned by this
.PN rpc_$
routine in
.PN status\&.all .
.TP 20
\fBrpc_$op_rng_error\fR
The requested operation does not correspond to a valid operation 
in the requested interface.
.TP 20
\fBrpc_$unk_if\fR
The requested interface is not known.
It is not registered in the server,
the version number of the registered interface is
different from the version number specified in the request,
or the UUID in the request does not match the UUID of the registered interface.
.TP 20
\fBrpc_$not_in_call\fR
An internal error.
.TP 20
\fBrpc_$proto_error\fR
An internal protocol error.
.SH Files
.PN /usr/include/idl/c/rpc.h
.br
.PN /usr/include/idl/rpc.idl
.SH See Also
intro(3ncs), rpc_register(3ncs), rpc_register_mgr(3ncs), rpc_register_object(3ncs)
