.TH rpc_set_fault_mode 3ncs
.SH Name
rpc_set_fault_mode \- set the fault-handling mode for a server (server only)
.SH Syntax
.nf
#include <idl/c/rpc.h>

unsigned long rpc_$set_fault_mode(\fIstate\fP)
unsigned long \fIstate\fP;
.fi
.\".SH SYNOPSIS (PASCAL)
.\".DS
.\"\fB%include '/usr/include/idl/pas/rpc.ins.pas'\fR
.\"
.\"\fBfunction rpc_$set_fault_mode(\fR
.\"	\fBin \fIon\fB: unsigned32): unsigned32;\fR
.\".DE
.SH Arguments
.TP
\fIstate\fR
If `true' (not zero), the server exits when a fault occurs.  If `false' (zero),
the server reflects faults back to the client.
.SH Description
The 
.PN rpc_$set_fault_mode
function controls the handling of faults that occur in user server 
routines.
.NXR "Interface to the Remote Procedure Call" "rpc_set_fault_mode"
.PP
In the default mode,
the server reflects faults back to the client and continues processing.
Calling 
.PN rpc_$set_fault_mode
with value other than zero for \fIstate\fR
sets the fault-handling mode so that
the server sends an 
.B rpc_$comm_failure
fault back to the client and exits.
Calling 
.PN rpc_$set_fault_mode
with \fIstate\fR equal to zero
resets the fault-handling mode to the default.
.PP
This function returns the previous state of the fault-handling mode.
.SH Diagnostics
This section lists status codes for errors returned by this
.PN rpc_$
routine.
.TP 20
\fBrpc_$not_in_call\fR
An internal error.
.TP 20
\fBrpc_$proto_error\fR
An internal protocol error.
.SH Files
.PN /usr/include/idl/c/rpc.h
.br
.PN /usr/include/idl/rpc.idl
.SH See Also
intro(3ncs)
