.TH rpc_sockaddr_to_name 3ncs
.SH Name
rpc_sockaddr_to_name \- convert a socket address to a host name and port number (client or server)
.SH Syntax
#include <idl/c/rpc.h>

void rpc_$sockaddr_to_name(\fIsockaddr, slength, name, nlength,\fP
\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\fIport, status\fP)
.nf
socket_$addr_t *\fIsockaddr\fP;
unsigned long \fIslength\fP;
unsigned char \fIname\fP;
unsigned long *\fInlength\fP;
unsigned long *\fIport\fP;
status_$t *\fIstatus\fP;
.fi
.\".SH SYNOPSIS (PASCAL)
.\".DS
.\"\fB%include '/usr/include/idl/pas/rpc.ins.pas'\fR
.\"
.\"\fBprocedure rpc_$sockaddr_to_name(\fR
.\"	\fBin \fIsockaddr\fB: socket_$addr_t;\fR
.\"	\fBin \fIslength\fB: unsigned32;\fR
.\"	\fBout \fIname\fB: array [0..255] of char;\fR
.\"	\fBin out \fInlength\fB: unsigned32;\fR
.\"	\fBout \fIport\fB: unsigned32;\fR
.\"	\fBout \fIstatus\fB: status_$t);\fR
.\".DE
.SH Arguments
.TP 20
\fIsockaddr\fR
A socket address.
.TP 20
\fIslength\fR
The length, in bytes, of \fIsockaddr\fR.
.TP 20
\fIname\fR
A string that contains the host name
and the address family.
The format is \fIfamily:host [port]\fR
where \fIfamily\fR is \fBip\fR.
.TP 20
\fInlength\fR
On input, \fInlength\fR is the length of the \fIname\fR buffer. \" terminator?
On output, \fInlength\fR is the number of characters returned in the \fIname\fR parameter.
.TP 20
\fIport\fR
The socket port number.
.TP 20
\fIstatus\fR
The completion status.
If the completion status returned in
.PN status\&.all
is equal to
.B status_$ok ,
then the routine that supplied it was successful.
.SH Description
The 
.PN rpc_$sockaddr_to_name
routine provides the address family, the host name, and the port number
identified by the specified socket address.
.NXR "Interface to the Remote Procedure Call" "rpc_sockaddr_to_name"
.SH Diagnostics
This section lists status codes for errors returned by this
.PN rpc_$
routine in
.PN status\&.all .
.TP 20
\fBrpc_$not_in_call\fR
An internal error.
.TP 20
\fBrpc_$proto_error\fR
An internal protocol error.
.NT 
This routine has been superseded by the 
.PN socket_$to_name
routine.
.NE
.SH Files
.PN /usr/include/idl/c/rpc.h
.br
.PN /usr/include/idl/rpc.idl
.SH See Also
intro(3ncs), rpc_name_to_sockaddr(3ncs), socket_to_name(3ncs)
