.TH rpc_inq_object 3ncs
.SH Name
rpc_inq_object \- return the object UUID represented by an RPC
handle (client or server)
.SH Syntax
.nf
#include <idl/c/rpc.h>

void rpc_$inq_object(\fIhandle, object, status\fP)
handle_t \fIhandle\fP;
uuid_$t *\fIobject\fP;
status_$t *\fIstatus\fP;
.fi
.\".SH SYNOPSIS (PASCAL)
.\".DS
.\"\fB%include '/usr/include/idl/pas/rpc.ins.pas'\fR
.\"
.\"\fBprocedure rpc_$inq_object(\fR
.\"	\fBin \fIhandle\fB: handle_t;\fR
.\"	\fBout \fIobject\fB: uuid_$t;\fR
.\"	\fBout \fIstatus\fB: status_$t);\fR
.\".DE
.SH Arguments
.TP 20
\fIhandle\fR
An RPC handle.
.TP 20
\fIobject\fR
The UUID of the object identified by \fIhandle\fR.
.TP 20
\fIstatus\fR
The completion status.
If the completion status returned in
.PN status\&.all
is equal to
.B status_$ok ,
then the routine that supplied it was successful.
.SH Description
The 
.PN rpc_$inq_object
routine enables a client or server to determine
the particular object that a handle represents.
.NXR "Interface to the Remote Procedure Call" "rpc_inq_object"
.PP
If a server exports an interface through which clients can access several objects,
it can use 
.PN rpc_$inq_object
to determine the object requested in a call.
This routine requires an RPC handle as input,
so the server can make the call only if the interface uses explicit handles 
(that is, if each operation in the interface has a handle parameter).
If the interface uses an implicit handle,
the handle identifier is not passed to the server.
.SH Examples
A database server that manages multiple databases must determine
the particular database to be accessed whenever it receives a remote procedure call.
Each manager routine makes the following call;
the routine then uses the returned UUID to identify the database to be
accessed:
.EX
rpc_$inq_object (handle, &db_uuid, &status);
.EE
.SH Diagnostics
This section lists status codes for errors returned by this 
.PN rpc_$
routine in
.PN status\&.all .
.TP 20
\fBrpc_$unk_if\fR
The requested interface is not known.
It is not registered in the server,
the version number of the registered interface is
different from the version number specified in the request,
or the UUID in the request does not match the UUID of the registered interface.
.TP 20
\fBrpc_$not_in_call\fR
An internal error.
.TP 20
\fBrpc_$proto_error\fR
An internal protocol error.
.SH Files
.PN /usr/include/idl/c/rpc.h
.br
.PN /usr/include/idl/rpc.idl
.SH See Also
intro(3ncs)
