.TH rpc_set_short_timeout 3ncs
.SH Name
rpc_set_short_timeout \- set or clear short-timeout mode (client only)
.SH Syntax
#include <idl/c/rpc.h>

unsigned long rpc_$set_short_timeout(\fIhandle, state, status\fP)
.nf
handle_t \fIhandle\fP;
unsigned long \fIstate\fP;
status_$t *\fIstatus\fP;
.fi
.\".SH SYNOPSIS (PASCAL)
.\".DS
.\"\fB%include '/usr/include/idl/pas/rpc.ins.pas'\fR
.\"
.\"\fBfunction rpc_$set_short_timeout(\fR
.\"	\fBin \fIh\fB: handle_t;\fR
.\"	\fBin \fIon\fB: unsigned32;\fR
.\"	\fBout \fIst\fB: status_$t): unsigned32;\fR
.\".DE
.SH Arguments
.TP
\fIhandle\fR
An RPC handle.
.TP
\fIon\fR
If `true' (not zero), short-timeout mode is set on \fIhandle\fR. 
If `false' (zero), standard timeouts are set.
.TP
\fIstatus\fR
The completion status.
If the completion status returned in
.PN status\&.all
is equal to
.B status_$ok ,
then the routine that supplied it was successful.
.SH Description
The 
.PN rpc_$set_short_timeout
routine
sets or clears short-timeout mode on a handle.
If a client uses a handle in short-timeout mode to make a remote procedure call,
but the server does not respond, the call fails quickly.
As soon as the server responds,
standard timeouts take effect and apply for the remainder of the call.
.NXR "Interface to the Remote Procedure Call" "rpc_set_short_timeout"
.PP
Calling 
.PN rpc_$set_short_timeout
with a value other than zero for \fIstate\fR
sets short-timeout mode.
Calling it with \fIstate\fR equal to zero, sets standard timeouts.
Standard timeouts are the default.
.PP
This routine returns the previous setting of the timeout mode in
.PN status\&.all .
.SH Diagnostics
This section lists status codes for errors returned by this
.PN rpc_$
routine in
.PN status\&.all .
.TP 20
\fBrpc_$not_in_call\fR
An internal error.
.TP 20
\fBrpc_$proto_error\fR
An internal protocol error.
.SH Files
.PN /usr/include/idl/c/rpc.h
.br
.PN /usr/include/idl/rpc.idl
.SH See Also
intro(3ncs)
