.TH rpc_use_family 3ncs
.SH Name
rpc_use_family \- create a socket of a specified address family for a
remote procedure call (RPC) server (server only)
.SH Syntax
#include <idl/c/rpc.h>

void rpc_$use_family(\fIfamily, sockaddr, slength, status\fP)
.nf
unsigned long \fIfamily\fP;
socket_$addr_t *\fIsockaddr\fP;
unsigned long *\fIslength\fP;
status_$t *\fIstatus\fP;
.fi
.\".SH SYNOPSIS (PASCAL)
.\".DS
.\"\fB%include '/usr/include/idl/pas/rpc.ins.pas'\fR
.\"
.\"\fBprocedure rpc_$use_family(\fR
.\"	\fBin \fIfamily\fB: unsigned32;\fR
.\"	\fBout \fIsockaddr\fB: socket_$addr_t;\fR
.\"	\fBout \fIslength\fB: unsigned32;\fR
.\"	\fBout \fIstatus\fB: status_$t);\fR
.\".DE
.SH Arguments
.TP 15
\fIfamily\fR
The address family of the socket to be created.  The value must be one
of \fBsocket_$internet\fP or \fBsocket_$unspec\fP.
.TP 15
\fIsockaddr\fR
The socket address 
of the socket on which the server will listen.
.TP 15
\fIslength\fR
The length, in bytes, of \fIsockaddr\fR.
.TP 15
\fIstatus\fR
The completion status.
If the completion status returned in
.PN status\&.all
is equal to
.B status_$ok ,
then the routine that supplied it was successful.
.SH Description
The 
.PN rpc_$use_family
routine creates a socket for a server without specifying its port number.
The RPC runtime software assigns a port number.
If a server must listen on a particular well-known port,
use 
.PN rpc_$use_family_wk
to create the socket.
.NXR "Interface to the Remote Procedure Call" "rpc_use_family"
.PP
A server listens on one socket per address family,
regardless of how many interfaces that it exports.
Therefore, servers should make this call once per supported address
family.
.SH Examples
The following statement creates a server's socket:
.EX
rpc_$use_family (family, &saddr, &slen, &status); \" updated 05dec88
.EE
.SH Diagnostics
This section lists status codes for errors returned by this 
.PN rpc_$
routine in
.PN status\&.all .
.TP 20
\fBrpc_$cant_create_sock\fR
The RPC runtime library was unable to create a socket.
.TP 20
\fBrpc_$not_in_call\fR
An internal error.
.TP 20
\fBrpc_$proto_error\fR
An internal protocol error.
.br
.ne 5
.TP 20
\fBrpc_$too_many_sockets\fR
The server is trying to use more than the maximum number of sockets that is allowed;
it has called 
.PN rpc_$use_family
or 
.PN rpc_$use_family_wk
too many times.
.TP 20
\fBrpc_$addr_in_use\fR
The address and port specified in an 
.PN rpc_$use_family_wk
routine are already in use.
This is caused by multiple calls to 
.PN rpc_$use_family_wk
with the same well-known port.
.SH Files
.PN /usr/include/idl/c/rpc.h
.br
.PN /usr/include/idl/rpc.idl
.SH See Also
intro(3ncs), rpc_use_family_wk(3ncs)
