.TH rpc_clear_binding 3ncs
.SH Name
rpc_clear_binding \- unset the binding of an RPC handle to a host and
server (client only)
.SH Syntax
.nf
#include <idl/c/rpc.h>

void rpc_$clear_binding(\fIhandle, status\fP)
handle_t \fIhandle\fP;
status_$t *\fIstatus\fP;
.fi
.\".SH SYNOPSIS (PASCAL)
.\".DS
.\"\fB%include '/usr/include/idl/pas/rpc.ins.pas'\fR
.\"
.\"\fBprocedure rpc_$clear_binding(\fR
.\"	\fBin \fIhandle\fB: handle_t;\fR
.\"	\fBout \fIstatus\fB: status_$t);\fR
.\".DE
.SH Arguments
.TP
\fIhandle\fR
The RPC handle whose binding is being cleared.
.TP
\fIstatus\fR
The completion status.
If the completion status returned in
.PN status\&.all
is equal to
.B status_$ok ,
then the routine that supplied it was successful.
.SH Description
The 
.PN rpc_$clear_binding
routine removes any association between an RPC handle and a particular 
server and host, but it does not remove the association between the handle
and an object.  This routine saves the RPC handle so that it can be reused
to access the same object, either by broadcasting or after resetting
the binding to another server.
.NXR "Interface to the Remote Procedure Call" "rpc_clear_binding"
.PP
A remote procedure call made using an unbound handle
is broadcast to all Local Location Brokers (LLBs) on the local network.
If the call's interface and the object identified by the handle
are both registered with any LLB,
that LLB forwards the request to the registering server.
The client RPC runtime library returns the first response that it receives
and binds the handle to the first server that responded.
.PP
The 
.PN rpc_$clear_binding
routine is the inverse of the 
.PN rpc_$set_binding
routine.
.SH Examples
Clear the binding represented in \fIhandle\fR:
.EX
rpc_$clear_binding (handle, &status);
.EE
.SH Diagnostics
This section lists status codes for errors returned by this
.PN rpc_$
routine in
.PN status\&.all .
.TP 20
\fBrpc_$not_in_call\fR
An internal error.
.TP 20
\fBrpc_$proto_error\fR
An internal protocol error.
.SH Files
.PN /usr/include/idl/c/rpc.h
.br
.PN /usr/include/idl/rpc.idl
.SH See Also
intro(3ncs), rpc_bind(3ncs), rpc_clear_server_binding(3ncs), rpc_set_binding(3ncs)
