.TH rrpc_inq_interfaces 3ncs
.SH Name
rrpc_inq_interfaces \- obtain a list of the interfaces that a server exports
.SH Syntax
#include <idl/c/rrpc.h>

void rrpc_$inq_interfaces(\fIhandle, max_ifs, ifs, l_if, status\fP)
.nf
handle_t \fIhandle\fP;
unsigned long \fImax_ifs\fP;
rrpc_$interface_vec_t \fIifs[]\fP;
unsigned long *\fIl_if\fP;
status_$t *\fIstatus\fP;
.fi
.\".SH SYNOPSIS (PASCAL)
.\".DS
.\"\fB%include '/usr/include/idl/pas/rrpc.ins.pas'\fR
.\"
.\"\fBprocedure rrpc_$inq_interfaces(\fR
.\"	\fBin \fIhandle\fB: handle_t;\fR
.\"	\fBin \fImax_ifs\fB: unsigned32;\fR
.\"	\fBout \fIifs\fB: univ rrpc_$interface_vec_t;\fR
.\"	\fBout \fIl_if\fB: unsigned32;\fR
.\"	\fBout \fIstatus\fB: status_$t);\fR
.\".DE
.SH Arguments
.TP 15 
\fIhandle\fR
An RPC handle.
.TP 15
\fImax_ifs\fR
The maximum number of elements in the array of interface specifiers.
.TP 15
\fIifs\fR
An array of \fBrpc_$if_spec_t\fR.
.TP 15 
\fIl_if\fR
The index of the last element in the returned array.
.TP 15
\fIstatus\fR
The completion status.  
If the completion status returned in
.PN status\&.all
is equal to
.B status_$ok ,
then the routine that supplied it was successful.
.RE
.SH Description
The 
.PN rrpc_$inq_interfaces
routine returns an array of RPC interface specifiers.
.NXR "Remote Remote Procedure Call Interface" "rrpc_inq_interface"
.NXR "rrpc_inq_interface" "Remote Remote Procedure Call Interface"
.SH Restrictions
On the client side, because of the way the
.PN rrpc_
calls are defined and implemented
in the run-time library
.PN libnck.a ,
you must explicitly call
into the entry point vector table for the
.PN rrpc_
interface to
send an
.PN rrpc_
request across the network. The
following is an example of a call that works
.EX
  (*rrpc_$client_epv.rrpc_$inq_interfaces)(handle,
             (unsigned long) max_ifs, ifs, &l_if, &status);
.EE
The server side stub routines call the entry point
.PN rrpc_$inq_interfaces
on behalf of the client.  The results of the call are then
passed back to the client.
.SH Files
.PN /usr/include/idl/c/rrpc.h
.br
.PN /usr/include/idl/rrpc.idl
.SH See Also
intro(3ncs)
