.TH snmpext 3n
.SH Name
snmpextregister, snmpextgetreq, snmpextrespond, snmpexterror \- 
library routines available for building the 
Extended ULTRIX SNMP Agent (Extended Agent)
.SH Syntax
.nf
.B #include <protocols/snmp.h>
.B #include <protocols/snmperrs.h>

struct objident {
.ta .5i 1.5i 3i
	short	ncmp;	/* number of components */
	unsigned long	cmp[SNMPMXID];	/* components */
};

struct snmpareg {
	short	oidtype;	/* object id type */
	objident	oid;	/* object id/*
};

struct snmparspdat {
	short	type;	/* response data type */
	short	octets;	/* number of octets in response data */
	char	*rspdat;	/* response data */
};

.B snmpextregister(\fIreg, community\fP)
.B struct snmpareg *\fIreg\fP;
.B char *\fIcommunity\fP;

.B snmpextgetreq(\fIreqoid, reqinst\fP)
.B objident *\fIreqoid\fP;
.B objident *\fIreqinst\fP;

.B snmpextrespond(\fIreqoid, rspinst, rspdat\fP)
.B objident *\fIreqoid\fP;
.B objident *\fIrspinst\fP;
.B struct snmparspdat *\fIrspdat\fP;

.B snmpexterror(\fIerror\fP)
.B long \fIerror\fP;
.fi
.SH Description
.PP
The following library routines are available 
for building the Extended Agent:
.IP snmpextregister 5
.NXR "snmpext" "library routines"
Used to register the Extended Agent's Management Information Base
(MIB) to the ULTRIX SNMP Agent (Agent).  The
.I reg
parameter is provided by the caller with the object identifiers to be
registered. The 
.I community
parameter is provided by the caller with the community name
(a null-terminated string).
.IP
.ne 3
This library routine waits for a registration confirmation from
the Agent.  The process is blocked until the confirmation arrives.
When the confirmation arrives, the routine returns the status of the
registration.
.IP
The program issues this call before any other Extended SNMP
Library calls.  It does this because the
.PN snmpextregister
library routine creates a UNIX
domain socket to the Agent on behalf of the caller.
.PP
.IP snmpextgetreq 5
Used to receive a request for a MIB variable from
the Agent.  If there is no outstanding request from the Agent, the process
is blocked until a request arrives from the Agent.
.IP
When the Extended Agent receives a request from the Agent, the
.I reqoid
parameter contains the object identifier for the requested variable.
The
.I reqinst
parameter contains the object instance identifier for the requested
variable.  If the request does not contains an object instance, the
.I reqinst->ncmp
record contains a zero.
.PP
.IP snmpextrespond 5
Used to return the requested variable to the Agent.  The
.I reqoid
parameter is the object identifier from the
.PN snmpextgetreq
library call. The
.I rspinst
parameter is the object instance associated with the
returning variable.  If there is no object instance associated with
the returning variable, a null parameter must be supplied.  The
.I rspdat
parameter is the returning variable.
.IP
Note that the Agent maintains a configurable timer
for outstanding requests to the Extended Agent.
Therefore, the Extended Agent must be 
able to respond within the Agent's timeout interval in
order to prevent 
a premature timeout in the Agent.
.IP
See the 
.PN /etc/snmpd.conf
file for your system's default timeout value.
.IP snmpexterror 5
Used to return an error to the Agent.  The
.I error
parameter is the error code to be returned to the Agent.
The error code is one of the following:
.IP
NOERR\(emsuccessful SNMP
.I get-next-request end-of-table.  
This
happens when the requested instance does not exist.
.IP
NOSUCH\(emUnknown requested object identifier.
.IP
GENERRS\(emGeneric error.
.IP
BADVAL\(emBad variable value.
.SH Restrictions
For the 
.PN snmpextregister
routine, the object identifier must have the prefix
1.3.6.1 to be registered.  If it does not, the registration is
rejected.
.SH Return Values
If an error occurs, a negative value is returned.
.\"
.SH Diagnostics
.TP 15
[BADVERSION]
Bad or obsolete protocol version
.TP 15
[BINDERR]
Failed to bind the socket
.TP 15 
[GENSUC] 
MIB successfully registered
.TP 15
[NOSOCK]
Socket does not exist
.TP 15
[NOSVC] 
MIB registration was rejected
.TP 15
[PKTLENERR]
Maximum size message exceeded or community name is too large
.TP 15
[RCV_ERR]
Reception failed
.TP 15
[SND_ERR]
Transmission failed
.SH Files
.TP 20
.PN /etc/snmpd.conf
SNMP configuration file
.SH See Also
.\" Other ULTRIX documents
.\" Italize the names of books as follows
snmpd.conf(5n), snmpd(8n), snmpsetup(8n)
.br
.I Guide to Network Programming
