.TH socket_to_name 3ncs
.SH Name
socket_to_name \- convert a socket address to a name and port number
.SH Syntax
#include <idl/c/socket.h>

void socket_$to_name(\fIsockaddr, slength, name, nlength, port, status\fP)
.nf
socket_$addr_t *\fIsockaddr\fP;
unsigned long \fIslength\fP;
socket_$string_t \fIname\fP;
unsigned long *\fInlength\fP;
unsigned long *\fIport\fP;
status_$t *\fIstatus\fP;
.fi
.\".SH SYNOPSIS (PASCAL)
.\".DS
.\"\fB%include '/usr/include/idl/pas/socket.ins.pas'\fR
.\"
.\"\fBprocedure socket_$to_name(\fR
.\"	\fBin \fIsockaddr\fB: socket_$addr_t;\fR
.\"	\fBin \fIslength\fB: unsigned32;\fR
.\"	\fBout \fIname\fB: socket_$string_t;\fR
.\"	\fBin out \fInlength\fB: unsigned32;\fR
.\"	\fBout \fIport\fB: unsigned32;\fR
.\"	\fBout \fIstatus\fB: status_$t);\fR
.\".DE
.SH Arguments
.TP 20
\fIsockaddr\fR
A socket address.
The socket address is the structure returned by either
.PN rpc_$use_family
or
.PN rpc_$use_family_wk .
.TP 20
\fIslength\fR
The length, in bytes, of \fIsockaddr\fR.
.TP 20
\fIname\fR
A string in the format \fIfamily:host[port]\fR,
where \fIfamily\fR is the address family and \fIhost\fR is the host name; 
\fIhost\fR may be in the standard numeric form
(for example, #192.1.2.3)
if a textual host name cannot be obtained.  Currently, only 
.B ip
is supported for 
.I family.
.TP 20
\fInlength\fR
On input, the maximum length, in bytes, of the name to be returned.
On output, the actual length of the name returned.
.TP 20
\fIport\fR
The port number.
.TP 20
\fIstatus\fR
The completion status. If the completion status returned in
.PN status\&.all
is equal to
.B status_$ok ,
then the routine that supplied it was successful.
.SH Description
The 
.PN socket_$to_name
routine converts a socket address to a textual address family, host
name, and port number.
.NXR "Operations on Socket Addresses" "socket_to_name"
.SH Files
.PN /usr/include/idl/socket.idl
.br
.PN /usr/include/idl/c/socket.h
.SH See Also
intro(3ncs), socket_family_to_name(3ncs), socket_from_name(3ncs), socket_to_numeric_name(3ncs)
