.TH staux 3 RISC
.SH Name
st_auxbtadd, st_auxbtsize, st_auxisymadd, st_auxrndxadd, st_auxrndxadd,
st_addtq, st_tqhigh_aux, st_shifttq, st_iaux_copyty, st_changeaux,
st_changeauxrndx  \- routines that provide scalar interfaces to auxiliaries
.SH Syntax
.nf
.B #include <syms.h>
.PP
.ft B
long st_auxbtadd(bt)
long bt;
.PP
.ft B
long st_auxbtsize(iaux,width)
long iaux;
long width;
.PP
.ft B
long st_auxisymadd (isym)
long isym;
.PP
.ft B
long st_auxrndxadd (rfd,index)
long rfd;
long index;
.PP
.ft B
long st_auxrndxadd (idn)
long idn;
.PP
.ft B
void st_addtq (iaux,tq)
long iaux;
long tq;
.PP
.ft B
long st_tqhigh_aux(iaux)
long iaux;
.PP
.ft B
void st_shifttq (iaux, tq)
int iaux;
int tq;
.PP
.ft B
long st_iaux_copyty (ifd, psym)
long ifd;
pSYMR psym;
.PP
.ft B
void st_changeaux (iaux, aux)
long iaux;
AUXU aux;
.PP
.ft B
void st_changeauxrndx (iaux, rfd, index)
long iaux;
long rfd;
long index;
.PP
.ft B
.fi
.ft R
.br
.SH Description
Auxiliary entries are unions with a fixed length of four bytes per entry.
Much information is packed within the auxiliaries. Rather than have
the compiler front-ends handle each type of auxiliary entry directly,
the following set of routines provide a high-level
scalar interface to the auxiliaries:
.TP 20
.I st_auxbtadd
Adds a type information record (TIR) to the auxiliaries.  It
sets the basic
type (bt) to the argument and all other fields to zero. The index
to this auxiliary entry is returned.
.TP 20
.I st_auxbtsize
Sets the bit in the TIR, pointed to by the
.I iaux
argument.  This argument says the basic type is a bit field and adds
an auxiliary with its width in bits.
.TP 20
.I st_auxisymadd
Adds an index into the symbol table (or any other scalar) to the auxiliaries.
It sets the value
to the argument that will occupy all four bytes. The index
to this auxiliary entry is returned.
.TP 20
.I st_auxrndxadd
Adds a relative index, RNDXR, to the auxiliaries.  It sets the rfd and index
to their respective arguments.
The index to this auxiliary entry is returned.
.TP 20
.I st_auxrndxadd_idn
Works the same as
.I st_auxrndxadd
except that RNDXR is referenced by an index into the dense number table.
.TP 20
.I st_iaux_copyty
Copies the type from the specified file (ifd) for the specified symbol
into the auxiliary table for the current file.  It returns the index to
the new aux.
.TP 20
.I st_shifttq
Shifts in the specified type qualifier,
tq (see sym.h), into the auxiliary entry TIR, which is
specified by the `iaux' index
into the current file. The current 
type qualifiers shift up one tq so that the first tq (tq0) is free
for the new entry.
.TP 20
.I st_addtq
Adds a type qualifier in the highest or most significant non-tqNil type
qualifier.
.TP 20
.I st_tqhigh_iaux
Returns the most significant type qualifier given an index into the files
aux table.
.TP 20
.I st_changeaux
Changes the iauxth aux in the current file's auxiliary table to aux.
.TP 20
.I st_changeauxrndx
Converts the relative index (RNDXR) auxiliary, which is specified by iaux, 
to the
specified arguments.
.SH See Also
stfd(3)
