.TH stcu 3 RISC
.SH Name
stcu, st_cuinit, st_setchdr, st_currentpchdr, st_free, st_extadd, st_pext_iext, st_pext_rndx, st_iextmax, st_extstradd, st_str_extiss, st_idn_index_fext, st_idn_rndx, st_pdn_idn, st_rndx_idn, st_setidn \- routines that provide a compilation unit symbol table interface
.SH Syntax
.nf
.B #include <syms.h>
.PP
.ft B
pCHDRR st_cuinit ()
.PP
.ft B
void st_setchdr (pchdr)
pCHDRR	pchdr;
.PP
.ft B
pCHDRR st_currentpchdr()
.PP
.ft B
void st_free()
.PP
.ft B
.PP
.ft B
long st_extadd (iss, value, st, sc, index)
long iss;
long value;
long st;
long sc;
long index;
.PP
.ft B
pEXTR st_pext_iext (iext)
long	iext;
.PP
.ft B
pEXTR st_pext_rndx (rndx)
RNDXR rndx;
.PP
.ft B
long st_iextmax()
.PP
.ft B
long st_extstradd (str)
char *str;
.PP
.ft B
char *st_str_extiss (iss)
long iss;
.PP
.ft B
long st_idn_index_fext (index, fext)
long index;
long fext;
.PP
.ft B
long st_idn_rndx (rndx)
RNDXR rndx;
.PP
.ft
pRNDXR st_pdn_idn (idn)
long idn;
.ft B
RNDXR st_rndx_idn (idn)
long idn;
.PP
.ft B
void st_setidn (idndest, idnsrc)
long idndest;
long idnsrc;
.fi
.ft R
.br
.SH Description
The
.B stcu
routines provide an interface to objects that occur once per 
object, rather than once per file descriptor (for example,
external symbols, strings, and dense numbers).
The routines provide access to the current
.I chdr
(compile time hdr), which represents the symbol table in running processes with
pointers to symbol table sections rather than indices and offsets used in
the disk file representation.
.PP
A new symbol table can be created with 
.I st_cuinit.
This routine creates and initializes a CHDRR (see 
.I cmplrs/stsupport.h).
The CHDRR is the current chdr and is used in all
later calls.  
.NT
A chdr can also be created with the read
routines (see 
.MS stio 3 ). 
The 
.I st_cuinit
routine returns a pointer to the new CHDRR record.
.NE
.TP 15
.I st_currentchdr
Returns a pointer the current chdr.
.TP 15
.I st_setchdr
Sets the current chdr to the
.I pchdr
argument and sets the per file structures to reflect a change in
symbol tables.
.TP 15
.I st_free
Frees all constituent structures associated with the
current chdr.
.TP 15
.I st_extadd
Lets you add to the externals table. It returns the index to
the new external for future reference and use. The
.I ifd
field for the external is filled in by the current file (see 
.MS stfd 3 ).
For more details on the parameters, 
see 
.I sym.h.
.TP 15
.I st_pext_iext and st_pext_rndx
Returns pointers to the external, given a index referencing them. The
latter routine requires a relative index where the 
.I index
field should be the index in external symbols and the
.I rfd
field should be the constant ST_EXTIFD. \fBNOTE\fR:
The externals contain the same structure as symbols (see the
.I SYMR
and
.I EXTR
definitions).
.TP 15
.I st_iextmax
Returns the current number of entries in the external symbol table.
.PP
.PP
The 
.I iss 
field in external symbols (the index into string space) must
point into external string space.
.TP 15
.I st_extstradd
Adds a null-terminated string to the external string space and returns
its index.
.TP 15
.I st_str_extiss
Converts that index into a pointer to the external string.
.PP
.PP
The dense number table provides a convenience to the code optimizer,
generator, and assembler. This table lets them reference symbols from
different files and externals with unique densely packed numbers.
.TP 15
.I st_idn_index_fext
Returns a new dense number table index, given an index into the symbol
table of the current file (or if 
.I fext
is set, the externals table).
.TP 15
.I st_idn_rndx
Returns a new dense number, but expects a RNDXR (see 
.I sym.h
to specify
both the file index and the symbol index rather than implying the file
index from the current file.
The
RNDXR contains two fields: an index into the externals table and a file 
index 
.I rsyms 
can point into the symbol table, as well). The file
index is ST_EXTIFD (see 
.I stsupport.h) 
for externals.
.TP 15
.I st_rndx_idn
Returns a RNDX, given an index into the dense number table.
.TP 15
.I st_pdn_idn
Returns a pointer to the RNDXR index by the idn argument.
.SH See Also
stfe(3), stfd(3)
