.TH t_getstate 3xti
.SH Name
t_getstate \- get the current state 
.SH Syntax
.B #include <xti.h>
.br
.sp 1
.B int t_getstate(\fIfd\fB)
.br
.B int \fIfd\fB;
.SH Arguments
.IP \fIfd\fR 10
Identifies the local transport endpoint the current state is
returned from.
.SH Description
The 
.PN t_getstate()
function returns the current state of the transport provider
associated with the transport endpoint specified by \fIfd\fR.
.NXR "t_getstate system call"
.NXR "transport provider" "returning current state"
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB lfHB
lfR  lfR  lfR .
_
.sp 4p
Parameters@Before Call@After Call
.sp 4p
_
.sp 6p
fd@x@/
.sp 6p
_
.TE
.PP
.SH Return Values
Upon successful completion, 
.PN t_getstate()
returns the current state. 
On failure, a value of \-1 is returned, and \fBt_errno\fR is set to indicate the
error. The current state is one of the following:
.IP T_UNBND 15
Unbound
.IP T_IDLE 15
Idle
.IP T_OUTCON 15
Outgoing connection pending
.IP T_INCON 15
Incoming connection pending
.IP T_DATAXFER 15
Data transfer
.IP T_OUTREL 15
Outgoing orderly release (waiting for an orderly release indication)
.IP T_INREL 15
Incoming orderly release (waiting to send an orderly release request)
.PP
If the provider is undergoing a state transition when 
.PN t_getstate()
is called, the function fails.
.SH Diagnostics
On failure, \fBt_errno\fR is set to one of the following:
.TP 20
[TBADF]
The specified file descriptor does not refer to a transport endpoint. This error may be 
returned when the \fIfd\fR has been previously closed or an erroneous number has been passed to
the call.
.TP 20 
[TSTATECHNG]
The transport provider is undergoing a transient state change.
.TP 20
[TNOTSUPPORT]
This function is not supported by the current implementation of XTI. 
.TP 20
[TSYSERR]
A system error has occurred during execution of this function.
.SH See Also
t_open(3xti)
