.TH t_rcvrel 3xti
.SH Name
t_rcvrel \- acknowledge receipt of an orderly release indication
.SH Syntax
.B #include <xti.h>
.br
.sp 1
.B int t_rcvrel(\fIfd\fB)
.br
.B int \fIfd\fB;
.SH Arguments
.IP \fIfd\fR 10
Identifies the local transport endpoint. 
.SH Description
This function is used to acknowledge receipt of an orderly release
indication. After receipt of this indication, the user cannot attempt
to receive more data, because such an attempt will block forever.
However, the user can continue to send data over the connection if
.PN t_sndrel() 
has not been issued by the user.
.NXR "t_rcvrel. system call"
.NXR "orderly release" "acknowledging receipt"
.PP
This function is an optional service of the transport provider, and is
only supported if the transport provider returned service type
T_COTS_ORD on 
.PN t_open() 
or 
.PN t_getinfo()\fR.\fR
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB lfHB
lfR  lfR  lfR .
_
.sp 6p
Parameters@Before Call@After Call
.sp 6p
_
.sp 6p
fd@x@/
.sp 6p
_
.TE
.PP
.sp 12p
.SH Return Values
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned. Otherwise, a
value of \-1 is returned, and \fBt_errno()\fR 
is set to indicate the error.
.SH Diagnostics
On failure, 
.PN t_errno() 
is set to one of the following:
.TP 20
[TBADF]
The specified file descriptor does not refer to a transport endpoint.
.TP 20 
[TOUTSTATE]
The function was issued in the wrong sequence on the transport endpoint
referenced by \fIfd\fR.
.TP 20
[TNOREL]
No orderly release indication currently exists on the specified
transport endpoint.
.TP 20
[TLOOK]
An asynchronous event has occurred on the transport endpoint and requires 
immediate attention.
.TP 20
[TNOTSUPPORT]
This function is not supported by the underlying transport provider. 
.TP 20
[TSYSERR]
A system error has occurred during execution of this function.
.SH See Also
t_getinfo(3xti), 
t_open(3xti),
t_sndrel(3xti)
