.TH t_snddis 3xti
.SH Name
t_snddis \- send user-initiated disconnect request
.SH Syntax
.B #include <xti.h>
.br
.sp 1
.B int t_snddis(\fIfd, call\fB)
.br
.B int \fIfd\fB;
.br
.B struct t_call\fI*call\fB\fB;
.SH Arguments
.IP \fIfd\fR 10
Identifies the local transport endpoint of the connection.
.IP \fIcall\fR 10
Specifies information associated with the abortive release.
.IP 
\fICall\fR points to a \fBt_call\fR structure which contains the
following members:
.EX
struct netbuf \fIaddr\fP;
struct netbuf \fIopt\fP;
struct netbuf \fIudata\fP;
int \fIsequence\fR;
.EE
.SH Description
This function is used to initiate an abortive release on an already
established connection or to reject a connect request.
.NXR "t_snddis system call"
.NXR "transport connection" "abortive release"
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB lfHB
lfR  lfR  lfR .
_
.sp 6p
Parameters@Before Call@After Call
.sp 6p
_
.sp 6p
fd@x@/
call->addr.maxlen@x@/
call->addr.len@x@/
call->addr.buf@/@/
call->opt.maxlen@/@/
call->opt.len@/@/
call->opt.buf@/@/
call->udata.maxlen@/@/
call->udata.len@x@/
call->udata.buf@?(?)@/
call->sequence@?@/
.sp 6p
_
.TE
.PP
.sp 12p
The values in \fIcall\fR have different semantics, depending on the context of
the call to 
.PN t_snddis(). 
When rejecting a connect request, \fIcall\fR must
be non-NULL and contain a valid value of \fIsequence\fR to uniquely identify
the rejected connect indication to the transport provider. The \fIsequence\fR
parameter is only meaningful, if the transport connection is in the
T_INCON state. The \fIaddr\fR and \fIopt\fR fields of \fIcall\fR are
ignored. In all other cases, \fIcall\fR needs be used only when data is being
sent with the disconnect request. The \fIaddr\fR, \fIopt\fR, and
\fIsequence\fR fields of the 
.PN t_call() 
structure are ignored. If the user
does not wish to send data to the remote user, the value of \fIcall\fR can be
NULL.
.PP
The \fIudata\fR field specifies the user data to be sent to the remote user.
The amount of user data must not exceed the limits supported by the transport
provider as returned in the \fIdiscon\fR field of the \fIinfo\fR argument of
.PN t_open() 
or
.PN t_getinfo()\fR.\fR 
If the \fIlen\fR field of the
\fIudata\fR is zero, no data is sent to the remote user.
.SH Return Values
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned. On failure,  a
value of \-1 is returned, and \fBt_errno\fR is set to indicate the
error.
.SH Diagnostics
On failure, \fBt_errno\fR is set to one of the following:
.TP 20
[TBADF]
The specified file descriptor does not refer to a transport endpoint.
.TP 20 
[TOUTSTATE]
The function was issued in the wrong sequence on the transport endpoint
referenced by \fIfd\fR.
.TP
[TBADDATA]
The amount of user data specified was not within the bounds allowed by
the transport provider. Some outbound data queued for this endpoint can be
lost.
.TP 20
[TBADSEQ]
An invalid sequence number was specified, or a NULL call structure was
specified when rejecting a connect request. Some outbound data queued for this
endpoint can be lost.
.TP 20
[TNOTSUPPORT]
This function is not supported by the underlying transport provider. 
.TP 20
[TSYSERR]
A system error has occurred during execution of this function.
.SH See Also
t_connect(3xti), 
t_getinfo(3xti), 
t_listen(3xti), 
t_open(3xti)
