.TH t_sndrel 3xti
.SH Name
t_sndrel \- initiate an orderly release
.SH Syntax
.B #include <xti.h>
.br
.sp 1
.B int t_sndrel(\fIfd\fB)
.br
.B int \fIfd\fB;
.SH Arguments
.IP \fIfd\fR 10
Identifies the local transport endpoint where the connection exists.
.SH Description
This function is used to initiate an orderly release of a transport
connection and indicates to the transport provider that the transport
user has no more data to send. After issuing 
.PN t_sndrel()\fR,\fR 
the user
can not send any more data over the connection. However, a user can 
continue to receive data if an orderly indication has not been received.
.NXR "t_sndrel system call"
.NXR "transport connection" "orderly release"
.PP
This function is an optional service of the transport provider and is
only supported if the transport provider returned service type
T_COTS_ORD on 
.PN t_open() 
or 
.PN t_getinfo()\fR.\fR
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB lfHB
lfR  lfR  lfR .
_
.sp 6p
Parameters@Before Call@After Call
.sp 6p
_
.sp 6p
fd@x@/
.sp 6p
_
.TE
.PP
.sp 12p
.SH Return Values
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned. On failure, a
value of \-1 is returned, and \fBt_errno\fR is set to indicate the
error.
.SH Diagnostics
On failure, \fBt_errno\fR is set to one of the following:
.TP 20
[TBADF]
The specified file descriptor does not refer to a transport endpoint.
.TP 20 
[TOUTSTATE]
The function was issued in the wrong sequence on the transport endpoint
referenced by \fIfd\fR.
.TP 20
[TFLOW]
O_NONBLOCK was set, but the flow control mechanism prevented the
transport provider from accepting the function at this time.
.TP 20
[TLOOK]
An asynchronous event has occurred on the transport endpoint referenced
by \fIfd\fR and requires immediate attention.
.TP 20
[TNOTSUPPORT]
This function is not supported by the underlying transport provider. 
.TP 20
[TSYSERR]
A system error has occurred during execution of this function.
.SH See Also
t_getinfo(3xti), 
t_open(3xti),
t_rcvrel(3xti)
