.\" SCCSID: @(#)link.2	2.1	3/10/87
.\" Last modified by Michaud 16Sept86.
.TH link 2
.SH Name
link \- link to a file
.SH Syntax
.nf
.B link(\fIname1, name2\fP)
.B char \fI*name1, *name2\fP;
.fi
.SH Description
.NXR "link system call"
.NXA "link system call" "unlink system call"
.NXA "link system call" "symlink system call"
.NXR "file" "creating hard link"
A hard link
to
.I name1
is created;
the link has the name
.IR name2 .
The
.I name1
must exist.
.PP
With hard links,
both
.I name1
and
.I name2
must be in the same file system.
Unless the caller is the superuser,
.I name1
must not be a directory.
Both the old and the new
.PN link
share equal access and rights to
the underlying object.
.SH Return Values
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned.  Otherwise,
a value of \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH Diagnostics
The
.PN link
system call
fails and no link is created under the following conditions:
.TP 15
[ENOTDIR]
A component of either path prefix is not a directory.
.TP 15
[ENAMETOOLONG]
A component of either pathname exceeded 255 characters,
or the entire length of either pathname exceeded 1023 characters.
.TP 15
[ENOENT]
A component of either path prefix does not exist.
.TP 15
[ENOENT]
The file named by \fIname1\fP does not exist.
.TP
[ENOENT]
When \fIname1\fP or \fIname2\fP point to an empty string and
the environment defined is POSIX or SYSTEM_FIVE.
.TP 15
[EACCES]
A component of either path prefix denies search permission.
.TP 15
[EACCES]
The requested link requires writing in a directory with a mode
that denies write permission.
.TP 15
[EEXIST]
The link named by \fIname2\fP does exist.
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The file named by \fIname1\fP is a directory, and the effective
user ID is not that of superuser or the environment defined is POSIX.
.TP 15
[EXDEV]
The link named by \fIname2\fP and the file named by \fIname1\fP
are on different file systems.
.TP 15
[EROFS]
The requested link requires writing in a directory on a read-only file
system.
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
One of the pathnames specified
is outside the process's allocated address space.
.TP 15
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating one of
the pathnames.
.TP 15
[ENOSPC]
The directory in which the entry for the new link is being placed
cannot be extended because there is no space left on the file
system containing the directory.
.TP 15
[EDQUOT]
The directory in which the entry for the new link is being
placed cannot be extended because the user's quota of disk blocks
on the file system containing the directory has been exhausted.
.TP 15
[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to
the file system to make the directory entry.
.TP 15
[ESTALE]
The file handle given in the argument is invalid.  The 
file referred to by that file handle no longer exists 
or has been revoked.
.TP
[ETIMEDOUT]
A connect request or remote file operation failed
because the connected party
did not properly respond after a period
of time that is dependent on the communications protocol.
.TP
[EMLINK]
The number of links to the file named by \fIpath1\fP would
exceed {LINK_MAX}.
.SH Environment
In the POSIX environment, linking to directories is
not allowed.
.SH See Also
symlink(2), unlink(2)
