.\" SCCSID: @(#)msgop.2	2.5	8/24/87
.TH msgop 2
.SH Name
msgsnd, msgrcv \- message operations
.SH Syntax
#include <sys/types.h>
.br
#include <sys/ipc.h>
.br
#include <sys/msg.h>
.PP
.nf
int msgsnd (\fImsqid, msgp, msgsz, msgflg\fP)
int \fImsqid\fP;
void *\fImsgp\fP;
size_t \fImsgsz\fP;
int \fImsgflg\fP;
.PP
int msgrcv (\fImsqid, msgp, msgsz, msgtyp, msgflg\fP)
int \fImsqid\fP;
void *\fImsgp\fP;
size_t \fImsgsz\fP;
long \fImsgtyp\fP;
int \fImsgflg\fP;
.fi
.SH Description
.NXB "msgop keyword"
.NXB "msgsnd system call"
.NXB "message" "operations"
.NXA "msgrcv system call" "msgctl system call"
.NXA "msgrcv system call" "msgget system call"
There are two message operations system calls,
.PN msgsnd
and
.PN msgrcv .
.SS msgsnd
The
.PN msgsnd
system call
is used to send a message to the queue associated with the message
queue identifier specified by
.IR msqid .
The
.I msgp
parameter points to a structure containing the message.
This structure is composed of the following members:
.EX
long	mtype;	/\(** message type \(**/
char	mtext[];	/\(** message text \(**/
.EE
The
.I mtype
parameter is a positive integer that can be used 
by the receiving process for
message selection.  For more information, see the
.PN msgrcv
section of this reference page.
The
.I mtext
parameter is any text of length
.I msgsz
bytes.
The
.I msgsz
parameter can range from 0 to a system-imposed maximum.
.PP
The
.I msgflg
parameter specifies the action to be taken
if the number of bytes already on the queue is equal to
msg_qbytes.
(For further information, see 
.MS intro 2 .
) The parameter also specifies what happens when 
the total number of messages on all queues system-wide is equal to the
system-imposed limit.
.PP
If either of these conditions is true, and if  
(\fImsgflg\fR & IPC_NOWAIT)
is true, the message is not sent and the calling process 
returns immediately.
However, if either of the conditions is true and 
(\fImsgflg\fR & IPC_NOWAIT)
is false,
the calling process suspends execution until
one of the following occurs:
.IP \(bu 5
The condition responsible for the suspension no longer
exists, in which case the message is sent.
.IP \(bu 5
The
.I msqid
parameter is removed from the system.
For further information, see 
.MS msgctl 2 .
When this occurs,
.I errno
is set equal to
EIDRM,
and a value of \-1 is returned.
.IP \(bu 5
The calling process receives a signal that is to be caught.
In this case, the message is not sent and the calling process resumes
execution in the manner prescribed in
.MS signal 3 .
.PP
The
.PN msgsnd
system call fails and no message is sent under the following conditions:
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The
.I msqid
parameter is not a valid message queue identifier.
.TP 15
[EACCES]
Operation permission is denied to the calling process.  For more
information, see 
.MS errno 2 .
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The
.I mtype
parameter is less than 1.
.TP 15
[EAGAIN]
The message cannot be sent for one of the reasons cited above and
(\fImsgflg\fP & IPC_NOWAIT)
is true.
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The
.I msgsz
parameter is less than zero or greater than the system-imposed limit.
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
The
.I msgp
parameter points to an illegal address.
.PP
Upon successful completion, the following actions are taken
with respect to the data structure associated with
.IR msqid 
(for more information, see 
.MS errno 2 
):
.IP \(bu 5
The
.I msg_qnum
is incremented by 1.
.IP \(bu 5
The
.I msg_lspid
is set equal to the process ID
of the calling process.
.IP \(bu 5
The
.I msg_stime
is set equal to the current time.
.SS msgrcv
The
.PN msgrcv
system call reads a message from the 
queue associated with the message queue
identifier specified by
.I msqid 
and places it in the structure pointed to by
.IR msgp .
This structure is composed of the following members:
.PP
.EX
long    mtype;      /\(** message type \(**/
char    mtext[];    /\(** message text \(**/
.EE
The
.I mtype
parameter is the received message's type, 
as specified by the sending process.
The
.I mtext
parameter is the text of the message.  The
.I msgsz
parameter specifies the size, in bytes, of
.IR mtext .
The received message is truncated to
.IR msgsz " bytes"
if it is larger than
.I msgsz
and
(\fImsgflg\fP & MSG_NOERROR)
is true.
The truncated part of the message is lost and no indication of
the truncation is given to the calling process.
.PP
The
.I msgtyp
parameter specifies the type of message requested, as follows:
.IP \(bu 5
If
.I msgtyp
is equal to 0, the first message on the queue is received.
.IP \(bu 5
If
.I msgtyp
is greater than 0, the first message of type
.I msgtyp
is received.
.IP \(bu 5
If
.I msgtyp
is less than 0,
the first message of the lowest type that is less than or equal
to the absolute value of
.I msgtyp
is received.
.PP
The
.I msgflg
parameter specifies the action to be taken if a 
message of the desired type is not on the queue.
These specified actions are as follows:
.IP \(bu 5
If
(\fImsgflg\fP & IPC_NOWAIT)
is true, the calling process returns immediately with a value
of \-1 and
.I errno
set to
ENOMSG.
.IP \(bu 5
If 
(\fImsgflg\fP & IPC_NOWAIT)
is false, the calling process suspends execution until
one of the following occurs:
.RS
.IP - 5
A message of the desired type is placed on the queue.
.IP - 5
The
.I msqid
parameter is removed from the system.
When this occurs,
.I errno
is set equal to
EIDRM,
and a value of \-1 is returned.
.IP - 5
The calling process receives a signal that is to be caught.
In this case, a message is not received and the calling process resumes
execution in the manner prescribed in
.MS signal 3 .
.RE
.PP
The
.PN msgrcv
system call fails and no message is received under the following
conditions:
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The
.I msqid
parameter is not a valid message queue identifier.
.TP
[EACCES]
Operation permission is denied to the calling process.
.TP
[EINVAL]
The
.I msgsz
parameter is less than 0.
.TP
[E2BIG]
The
.I mtext 
parameter is greater than
.I msgsz
and
(\fImsgflg\fP & MSG_NOERROR)
is false.
.TP
[ENOMSG]
The queue does not contain a message of the desired type and
(\fImsgtyp\fP & IPC_NOWAIT)
is true.
.TP
[EFAULT]
The
.I msgp
parameter points to an illegal address.
.PP
Upon successful completion,
the following actions are taken with respect to
the data structure associated with
.I msqid:  
.IP \(bu 5
The
.I msg_qnum
is decremented by 1.
.IP \(bu 5
The
.I msg_lrpid
is set equal to the process
ID
of the calling process.
.IP \(bu 5
The
.I msg_rtime
is set equal to the current time.
.SH Return Values
If the
.PN msgsnd
or
.PN msgrcv
system calls
return due to the receipt of a signal, a value of \-1 is
returned to the calling process, and
errno
is set to
EINTR.
If they return due to removal of
.I msqid
from the system, a value of \-1 is returned, and
errno
is set to
EIDRM.
.PP
Upon successful completion, the return value is as follows:
.IP \(bu 5
The
.PN msgsnd
system call returns a value of 0.
.IP \(bu 5
The
.PN msgrcv
system call
returns a value equal to the number of bytes actually placed into
.IR mtext .
.PP
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned, and
errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH See Also
errno(2), intro(2), msgctl(2), msgget(2), signal(3)
.NXE "msgop keyword"
.NXE "msgsnd system call"
.NXE "message" "operations"
