.\" SCCSID: @(#)readlink.2	8.1	9/11/90
.TH readlink 2
.SH Name
readlink \- read value of a symbolic link
.SH Syntax
.nf
.ft B
cc = readlink(path, buf, bufsiz)
int cc;
char *path, *buf;
int bufsiz;
.fi
.ft R
.SH Description
.NXR "readlink system call"
.NXR "file" "reading symbolic link"
The
.PN readlink
system call places the contents of the symbolic link
.I path 
in the buffer
.I buf,
which has size
.IR bufsiz . 
The contents of the link are not null terminated when returned.
.SH Return Values
The call returns the count of characters placed in the buffer
if it succeeds, or a \-1 if an error occurs, placing the error
code in the global variable \fIerrno\fP.
.SH Diagnostics
The
.PN readlink
system call fails under the following conditions:
.TP 15
[ENOTDIR]
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.TP 15
[ENAMETOOLONG]
A component of a pathname exceeded 255 characters, or an entire
pathname exceeded 1023 characters.
.TP 15
[ENOENT]
The named file does not exist.
.TP 15
[EACCES]
Search permission is denied on a component of the path prefix.
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The named file is not a symbolic link.
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
The
.I buf
extends outside the process's allocated address space.
.TP 15
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname.
.TP 15
[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while reading from the file system.
.TP
[ETIMEDOUT]
A connect request or remote file operation failed,
because the connected party
did not properly respond after a period
of time that is dependent on the communications protocol.
.SH See Also
lstat(2), symlink(2), stat(2)
