.\" SCCSID: @(#)rmdir.2	8.1	9/11/90
.TH rmdir 2
.SH Name
rmdir \- remove a directory file
.SH Syntax
.nf
.B rmdir(path)
.B char *path;
.fi
.SH Description
.NXR "rmdir system call"
.NXR "directory" "removing"
The
.PN rmdir
system call
removes a directory file
whose name is given by
.I path.
The directory must not have any entries other
than dot (.) and dot-dot (..).
.PP
If one or more processes have the directory open when the last
link is removed, the dot and dot-dot entries, if present, are
removed before 
.PN rmdir() 
returns and no new entries may be created
in the directory.  The directory, however, is not removed until
all references to the directory have been closed.
.SH Return Values
A zero (0) is returned if the remove succeeds; otherwise, a \-1 is
returned, and an error code is stored in the global location \fIerrno\fP\|.
.SH Diagnostics
The named file is removed unless one or more of the
following are true:
.TP 15
[ENOTEMPTY]
The named directory contains files other than dot and dot-dot. 
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The directory containing the directory to be removed is marked
sticky, and neither the containing directory nor the directory
to be removed are owned by the effective user ID.
.TP 15
[ENOTDIR]
A component of the path is not a directory.
.TP 15
[ENOENT]
The named directory does not exist or
.I path
points to an empty string and the environment defined is POSIX or SYSTEM_FIVE.
.TP 15
[EACCES]
Search permission is denied for a component of the
.I path
prefix.
.TP 15
[EACCES]
Write permission is denied on the directory containing the link
to be removed.
.TP 15
[EBUSY]
The directory to be removed is the mount point for a mounted file system.
.TP 15
[EROFS]
The directory entry to be removed resides on a read-only file system.
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
The
.I path
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.TP 15
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname.
.TP 15
[ENAMETOOLONG]
A component of a pathname exceeded 255 characters, or an entire
pathname exceeded 1023 characters.
.TP 15
[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while deleting the directory entry or
deallocating the inode.
.TP
[ETIMEDOUT]
A connect request or remote file operation failed because the connected party
did not properly respond after a period of time that is dependent
on the communications protocol.
.SH See Also
mkdir(2), unlink(2)
