.\" SCCSID: @(#)swapon.2	4.1	12/9/88
.TH swapon 2
.SH Name
swapon \- add a swap device for interleaved paging/swapping
.SH Syntax
.nf
.B swapon(special)
.B char *special;
.fi
.SH Description
.NXR "swapon system call"
.NXR "device" "allocating for paging"
.NXR "device" "allocating for swapping"
The
.PN swapon
system call
makes the block device 
.I special 
available to the system for
allocation for paging and swapping.  The names of potentially
available devices are known to the system and defined at system
configuration time.  The size of the swap area on 
.I special 
is calculated at the time the device is first made available
for swapping.
.SH Restrictions
There is no way to stop swapping on a disk so that the pack may be
dismounted.
.SH Diagnostics
The
.PN swapon
system call succeeds unless:
.TP 15
[ENOTDIR]
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.TP 15
[ENAMETOOLONG]
A component of a pathname exceeded 255 characters, or an entire
pathname exceeded 1023 characters.
.TP 15
[ENOENT]
The named device does not exist.
.TP 15
[EACCES]
Search permission is denied for a component of the path prefix.
.TP 15
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the
pathname.
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The caller is not the super-user.
.TP 15
[ENOTBLK]
The
.I special
is not a block device.
.TP 15
[EBUSY]
The device specified by
.I special
has already been made available for swapping.
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The device configured by
.I special
was not configured into the system as a swap device.
.TP 15
[ENXIO]
The major device number of
.I special
is out of range.  (This indicates that no device
driver exists for the associated hardware.)
.TP 15
[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while opening the swap device.
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
The
.I special
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.SH See Also
config(8), swapon(8)
