.\" SCCSID: @(#)utimes.2	2.2	8/10/87
.TH utimes 2
.SH Name
utimes \- set file times
.SH Syntax
.nf
#include <sys/time.h>
.PP
int utimes(\fIfile, tvp\fP)
char *\fIfile\fP;
struct timeval *\fItvp\fP;
.fi
.SH Description
.NXR "utimes system call"
.NXR "file" "setting access time"
.NXR "file" "setting modification time"
The
.PN utimes
call
sets the access and modification times of the  file
named by \fIfile\fP.
.PP
If
.I tvp
is NULL,
the access and modification times
of the file are set to the current time.
A process must be the owner of the file, the superuser,
or have write permission to use
.PN utimes
in this manner.
.PP
If 
\fItvp\fP is not NULL, it is assumed to point to an array of
two timeval structures.  The access time is set to the value
of the first member, and the modification time is set to the
value  of  the second member.  
Only the owner of the file or
the super-user may use 
.PN utimes 
in this manner.
.PP
In either case, the inode-changed time of the \fIfile\fP is set to
the current time.
.SH Return Values
Upon successful completion, a value of zero (0) is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned, and
.I errno 
is set to indicate the error.
.SH Diagnostics
The
.PN utimes
system call
fails if one or more of the following are true:
.TP 20
[EACCES]
Search permission is denied for a component of the path prefix.
.TP 20
[EACCES]
The
.I tvp
argument is NULL and the caller is not the owner of the file;
write access is denied.
.TP 20
[EFAULT]
The
.I file
or
.I tvp
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.TP 20
[EINVAL]
An illegal timeval (that is, negative seconds or 
microseconds greater than 999999) was supplied.
.TP 20
[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while reading or writing the affected inode.
.TP 20
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname.
.TP 20
[ENAMETOOLONG]
A component of a pathname exceeds 255 characters, or an entire
pathname exceeds 1023 characters.
.TP 20
[ENOENT]
The named file does not exist.
.TP 20
[ENOTDIR]
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.TP 20
[EPERM]
The
.I tvp
argument is not NULL, the caller has write access, the caller
is not the owner of the file, and the caller is not the superuser.
.TP 20
[EROFS]
The file system containing the file is mounted read-only.
.TP
[ETIMEDOUT]
A connect request or remote file operation failed,
because the connected party
did not respond after a period
of time determined by the communications protocol.
.SH See Also
stat(2)
