.\" SCCSID: @(#)hier.7	3.2	9/6/88
.TH hier 7 RISC
.SH Name
hier \- file system hierarchy
.SH Description
.NXR "hier keyword"
.NXR "hierarchy" "root file system" 
.NXB "root file system" "hierarchy"
The following is a brief description of the root file system.
The major directory hierarchy and representative files are listed.
.PP
Symbolic links can be included in the files to provide backward
compatibility. To display the links, type:
.EX
% ls -l
.EE
.PP
See the 
\fIGuide to Disk Maintenance\fP
for more detailed information.
.IP / 8
Directory for root file system. This file system is separated into
nonsharable data, 
(\f(CWroot\fP (/))
and sharable data, 
(\f(CW/usr\fP).
These two file systems are each divided into the following types: static
data, variable data, and executable data.
.IP /bin 
Directory for the single user executable data files.
.IP /bin/init
Parent of all processes,
.MS init 8 .
.IP /bin/mount
Mount program,
.MS mount 8 .
.IP /dev
Directory for devices.
.RS 11
.PD 0
.IP MAKEDEV 8
Shell script to create special files
.IP MAKEDEV.local
Site-specific part of MAKEDEV
.IP console
Main console,
.MS tty 4 
.IP rz
SCSI disks,
.MS rz 4 
.IP rrz*
Raw SCSI disks,
.MS rz 4 
.IP rmt*
Tapes
.IP mrmt*
Tapes
.IP tty*
Terminals,
.MS tty 4 
.IP "     ."
.IP "     ."
.IP "     ." 
.PD
.RE
.IP /etc 8
Directory for the machine-specific static data files and 
shell scripts for booting.
.RS 11
.PD 0
.IP crontab 10
System clock daemon table,
.MS crontab 5
.IP disktab
Disk characteristics and partition tables,
.MS disktab 5 
.IP fstab
File system configuration table,
.MS fstab 5 
.IP group
Group file,
.MS group 5 
.IP hosts
Host name-to-network address mapping file,
.MS hosts 5 
.IP motd
Message-of-the-day file,
.MS login 1 
.IP networks
Network name-to-network number mapping file,
.MS networks 5 
.IP passwd
Password file,
.MS passwd 5 
.IP protocols
Name-to-number mapping file,
.MS protocols 5 
.IP rc
Shell script to bring the system to multiuser mode
.IP rc.local
Site-dependent portion of 
.I rc
.IP remote
Names and description of remote hosts for 
.MS tip 1c 
and
.MS remote 5 
.IP services
Network services definition file,
.MS services 5 
.IP termcap
Description of terminal capabilities,
.MS termcap 5 
.IP ttys
Properties of terminals,
.MS ttys 5 
.IP "     ."
.IP "     ."
.IP "     ." 
.PD
.RE
.IP /lib 8 
Symbolic link to 
.PN /usr/lib .
.IP /lost+found
Directory for connecting detached files for
.MS fsck 8 .
.IP /sys
Symbolic link, normally to 
.PN /usr/sys .
.IP /tmp
Directory for temporary files (see also 
.PN /usr/tmp ).
.RS 11
.PD 0
.IP e* 7
Used by
.MS ed 1 
.IP ctm*
Used by 
.MS cc 1 
.IP "     ."
.IP "     ."
.IP "     ." 
.RE
.PD
.IP /usr 8
General purpose directory, on which the 
.PN /usr 
file system is normally mounted (see description that follows).
.IP /var
Directory for variable length files, such as spool, administrative, 
and temporary files. These files can
also be located in 
.PN /usr/var .
See the 
\fIGuide to Disk Maintenance\fP.
.IP /vmunix
Kernel image
.NXE "root file system" "hierarchy"
.sp
.PP
The
.PN /usr
directory contains the sharable data. The following is a brief 
description of the 
.PN /usr 
file system.
.NXB "/usr file system" "hierarchy"
The major directory hierarchy and representative
files are listed. 
.IP /usr 10
Root directory for 
.PN /usr 
file system.
.IP /usr/adm
Directory for administrative information, which is now a symbolic
link to
.PN /var/adm .
.RS 13
.PD 0
.IP crash 8
Directory for crash dumps
.IP vmcore.?,vmunix.? 20
Crash dump files
.RE
.RS 13
.IP lpacct 8
Line printer accounting,
.MS lpr 1 
.IP tracct
Phototypesetter accounting,
.MS troff 1 
.IP wtmp
Login history,
.MS utmp 5 
.IP "     ."
.IP "     ."
.IP "     ." 
.PD
.RE
.IP /usr/bin 10 
Directory for the shared executable data files, including utility
programs and Shell scripts.
.RS 13
.PD 0
.IP as 5
assembler
.IP cc
C compiler executive (see also 
.PN /usr/lib/ccom  
and
.PN /usr/lib/cpp )
.IP csh
C shell
.IP "     ." 
.IP "     ." 
.IP "     ." 
.RE
.PD
.IP /usr/dict 10
Directory for word lists.
.PD 0
.RS 13
.IP spellhist 10
History file,
.MS spell 1 
.IP words
Word list,
.MS look 1 
.IP "     ."
.IP "     ."
.IP "     ." 
.PD
.RE
.IP /usr/doc 10
Directories containing files for the Vol.2 documentation.
.PD 0
.RS 13
.IP as 5
Assembler manual
.IP c
C manual
.IP "     ."
.IP "     ."
.IP "     ." 
.PD
.RE
.IP /usr/etc 10
Directory for utility programs and shell scripts.
.IP /usr/etc/cron
Clock daemon,
.MS cron 8 .
.IP /usr/etc/dump
Dump program,
.PN dump(8) .
.IP /usr/examples
A directory where components of the base system and Digital's
separately licensed products can locate code examples, scripts, and
demos for customers to use.  A typical use is to complement printed
documentation.
.IP /usr/games
Directory for games.
.PD 0
.RS 13
.IP hangman 10
Hangman game
.IP lib
Library directory for games
.IP "     ."
.IP "     ."
.IP "     ." 
.PD
.RE
.IP /usr/etc/getty 10
Part of
.IR login ,
.MS getty 8 .
.IP /usr/include
Directory for standard #include files.
.PD 0
.RS 13
.IP a.out.h 9
Object file layout,
.MS a.out 5 
.IP math.h
.MS matherr 3m 
.IP stdio.h
Standard I/O,
.MS intro 3s 
.IP sys
Symbolic link to 
.PN /sys/h 
(system generation #include files)
.IP "     ."
.IP "     ."
.IP "     ." 
.PD
.RE
.IP /usr/lib 10
Directory for the shared static data files, such as object libraries. 
.RS 13
.PD 0
.IP atrun 8
System scheduler,
.MS at 1 
.IP cpp
C preprocessor
.IP libc.a
System calls and standard I/O (2,3,3S)
.IP font
Directory for 
.MS *roff 1 
fonts
.IP lint
Directory for utility files for 
.MS lint 1 
.IP tmac
Directory for 
.MS *roff 1 
macros
.IP units
Data file of conversion tables for
.MS units 1 
.IP uucp
Directory for
.MS uucp 1c 
programs and data 
.IP "     ."
.IP "     ."
.IP "     ." 
.RE
.PD
.IP /usr/man 10
Directory for unformatted and preformatted reference (manual) pages.
.RS 13
.PD 0
.IP cat1 8
Section 1 (preformatted)
.IP cat2
Section 2 (preformatted)
.IP cat3
Section 3 (preformatted)
.IP "     ."
.IP "     ."
.IP "     ." 
.IP man1 8
Section 1 (unformatted)
.IP man2
Section 2 (unformatted)
.IP man3
Section 3 (unformatted)
.IP "     ."
.IP "     ."
.IP "     ." 
.PD
.RE
.IP /usr/mdec 10
Directory for ULTRIX boot files.
.IP /usr/msgs 
Directory for messages, 
.MS msgs 1 .
.IP /usr/new
Directory for binaries of new versions of programs.
.IP /usr/preserve
Directory for editor 
.PN temp 
files preserved after crashes or hangups.
.IP /usr/skel
Directory for sample 
.I user
startup files.
.RS 13
.PD 0
.IP .cshrc 9
Startup file for
.MS csh 1 
.IP .login
Login startup file for
.MS csh 1 
.IP .mailrc
Startup file for
.MS mail 1 
.IP .profile
Startup file for
.MS sh 1 
.IP .project
Lists information used by 
.MS finger 1 
.PD
.RE
.IP /usr/spool 10
Directory for delayed execution files, which is now a symbolic link to
.PN /var/spool .
.RS 13
.PD 0
.IP at 5
Directory used by 
.MS at 1 
.IP lpd
Directory used by
.MS lpr 1 
.RE
.RS 21
.IP lock 5
Present when line printer is active
.IP cf*
Copy of file to be printed, if necessary
.IP df*
Daemon control file,
.MS lpd 8 
.IP tf*
Transient control file (exists while 
.PN lpr
is working)
.RE
.RS 13
.IP mail 6
Mailboxes for
.MS mail 1 
.RE 
.RS 21
.IP \fIname\fP 12
Mail file for user
.I name
.IP \fIname.lock\fP
Lock file (exists while
.I name
is receiving mail)
.RE
.RS 13
.IP uucp 6
Work files and staging area for 
.MS uucp 1c 
.RE
.RS 21
.IP LOGFILE 12
Summary log
.PD
.RE
.IP /usr/src 10
Generic sources.
.PD 0
.RS 13
.IP usr.bin 8
User sources
.RE
.RS 23
.IP troff 6 
.PN nroff 
and 
.PN troff 
sources
.IP term
Directory of description files for new printers
.PD
.RE
.IP /usr/sys 10
Directory for system files.
.RS 13
.PD 0
.IP b.mips 10
BINARY for MIPS
.IP b.vax
BINARY for VAX
.IP fs
Filesystem SRC
.IP net 
Netword SRC
.IP mips
MIPS-specific SRC
.IP vax
VAX-specific SRC
.IP data
System data files
.IP conf/{mips,vax}
Configuration files
.IP h
#include files
.IP SAS
Standalone system
.IP sys
Machine independent SRC
.PD
.RE
.IP /usr/tmp 10
Symbolic link to
.PN /var/tmp .
.NXE "/usr file system" "hierarchy"
.SH See Also
apropos(1), find(1), finger(1), grep(1), ls(1), whatis(1), whereis(1),
which(1), ncheck(8)
.br
\fIGuide to Disk Maintenance\fP
