.\" SCCSID: @(#)term.7	8.2	10/29/90
.TH term 7
.SH Name
term \- conventional names for terminals
.SH Description
.NXR "term command"
Certain commands use these terminal names. They are maintained 
as part of the shell environment. For further information, see
.MS sh 1 , 
and 
.MS environ 7 .
.NXR(t) "terminal" "conventional names"
.PP
.nf
.ta \w'450\-12\-8  'u
adm3a	Lear-Siegler ADM-3a
2621	Hewlett-Packard HP262? series terminals
hp	Hewlett-Packard HP264? series terminals
c100	Human Designed Systems Concept 100
h19	Heathkit H19
mime	Microterm mime in enhanced ACT IV mode
1620	Diablo 1620 (and others using HyType II)
300	DASI/DTC/GSI 300 (and others using HyType I)
33	Teletype Model 33
37	Teletype Model 37
43	Teletype Model 43
735	Texas Instruments TI735 (and TI725)
745	Texas Instruments TI745
dumb	Terminals with no special features
dialup	A terminal on a phone line with no known characteristics
network	A terminal on a network connection with no known characteristics
4014	Tektronix 4014
vt52	Digital Equipment Corp. VT52
vt100	Digital Equipment Corp. VT100
vt200	Digital Equipment Corp. VT200 - used on VT220, VT240
vt300	Digital Equipment Corp. VT300 - used on VT330, VT340
xterm	xterm terminal emulator, X window system
.fi
.PP
See 
.PN /etc/termcap 
for an up-to-date and locally correct list.
See 
.MS termcap 5 
for more information on 
.PN /etc/termcap .
.PP
Commands whose behavior may depend on the terminal, either consult TERM in
the environment, or accept arguments of the form
.PN \-Tterm ,
where
.I term
is one of the names given above.
.SH See Also
clear(1), ex(1), more(1), nroff(1), plot(1g), sh(1), stty(1), tabs(1),
tset(1), ul(1), termcap(3x), termcap(5), environ(7)
