.\" SCCSID: @(#)addbib.1	8.1	9/11/90
.TH addbib 1
.SH Name
addbib \- create or extend bibliographic database
.SH Syntax
.NXR "bibliography" "editing"
.NXR "bibliography" "creating"
.NXR "addbib program"
\fBaddbib\fP [\fB\-p\fI promptfile\fR] [\fB\-a\fR] \fIdatabase\fR
.SH Description
When this program starts up, answering ``y''
to the initial ``Instructions?'' prompt yields directions;
typing ``n'' or \s-2RETURN\s0 skips them.
The
.PN addbib
command
then prompts for various bibliographic fields,
reads responses from the terminal,
and sends output records to a
.I database.
A null response (just \s-2RETURN\s0) means to leave out that field.
A minus sign (\-) means to go back to the previous field.
A trailing backslash allows a field to be continued on the next line.
The repeating ``Continue?'' prompt allows the user
either to resume by typing ``y'' or \s-2RETURN\s0,
to quit the current session by typing ``n'' or ``q'',
or to edit the
.I database
with any system editor (
.PN vi, 
.PN ex ,
.PN edit ,
.PN ed
).
.SH Options
.NXR "addbib program" "options"
.TP 5
.B \-a
Suppresses prompting for an abstract.  
Asking for an abstract is the default.
Abstracts are ended with a CTRL/D.
.TP
.B \-p
Causes use of a new prompting skeleton, defined in
.I promptfile.
This file should contain prompt strings, a tab,
and the key-letters to be written to the
.I database.
.PP
The most common key-letters and their meanings are given below.
The
.PN addbib
insulates you from these key-letters,
since it gives you prompts in English.
However, if you edit the bibliography file later,
you need this information.
.NXR "addbib program" "keyletters"
.sp
.nf
	%A	Author's name
	%B	Book containing article referenced
	%C	City (place of publication)
	%D	Date of publication
	%E	Editor of book containing article referenced
	%F	Footnote number or label (supplied by \fIrefer\fP\|)
	%G	Government order number
	%H	Header commentary, printed before reference
	%I	Issuer (publisher)
	%J	Journal containing article
	%K	Keywords to use in locating reference
	%L	Label field used by \fB\-k\fP option of \fIrefer\fP
	%M	Bell Labs Memorandum (undefined)
	%N	Number within volume
	%O	Other commentary, printed at end of reference
	%P	Page number(s)
	%Q	Corporate or Foreign Author (unreversed)
	%R	Report, paper, or thesis (unpublished)
.fi
.nf
	%S	Series title
	%T	Title of article or book
	%V	Volume number
	%X	Abstract \- used by \fIroffbib\fP, not by \fIrefer\fP
	%Y,Z	ignored by \fIrefer\fP
.fi
.sp
Except for `A', each field should be given once.
Only relevant fields should be supplied.
An example is:
.EX
.sp
.nf
	%A	Bill Tuthill
	%T	Refer \- A Bibliography System
	%I	Computing Services
	%C	Berkeley
	%D	1982
	%O	\s-1UNX\s0 4.3.5.
.EE
.fi
.sp
.SH Files
.DT
promptfile	Optional file to define prompting
.SH See Also
indxbib(1), lookbib(1), refer(1), roffbib(1), sortbib(1)
