.TH anno 1mh
.SH Name
anno \- annotate messages
.SH Syntax
.B anno
[
.I +folder
] [
.I msgs
] [
.B "\-component"
.I field
] [
.B "\-help"
] [
.B "\-[no]inplace"
] [
.B \-text 
.I body
]
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Description
.NXR "anno command"
.NXR "annotating messages"
The
.PN anno
command annotates a message by adding 
one or more header fields to the message.
.PP
The
.PN anno
command allows you to choose the name of the header field 
which you add.
It records the date at which the message is annotated,
and allows you to add an additional field containing text,
if you wish.
.PP
You can use 
.PN anno 
with 
.PN dist , 
.PN forw ,
and
.PN repl ,
to keep track of how you have distributed, forwarded, 
or replied to messages.
.PP
By default, 
.PN anno
annotates the current message in the current folder.
You can select another message by using the
.I msg
and
.I +folder
arguments.
You can also annotate more than one message, 
or a range of messages.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Options
.IP "\-component \fIfield\fP" 10
Specifies the name of the header field which
.PN anno 
adds.
It should be a valid RFC 822-style message field name,
which means that it should consist of alphanumeric characters
or dashes only.
If you do not supply this option, 
.PN anno
will prompt you for the field name.
.\"
.IP "\-help" 10
Prints a list of the valid options to this command.
.\"
.IP "\-inplace" 10
.PD 0
.IP "\-noinplace" 10
.PD
The 
.B \-inplace 
switch causes annotation to be done in place in order
to preserve links to the annotated message.
.\"
.IP "\-text \fIbody\fP" 10
Allows you to add a header field containing text to the message.
The
.PN anno
command will create a second header field on the message,
containing the text that you specify.
If the text contains a space, you must enclose the text
in double quotes (").
If you do not supply this option, 
.PN anno
adds only one field, which contains the date of the annotation.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The default settings for this command are:
.IP
.I +folder
defaults to the current folder
.br
.I msgs 
defaults to the current message
.br
.B \-noinplace
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Examples
This example annotates message number 1 in the folder 
.PN +test .
The 
.B \-component 
option specifies the name of the header field:
.EX
% \f(CBanno 1 +test -component Forwarded\fP
.EE
The following field is added to the message header:
.EX
Forwarded: Tue, 08 Jan 91 16:10:06 +0000
.EE
.PP
The next example shows how to use the 
.B \-text
option to add an additional field:
.EX
% \f(CBanno -component Forwarded -text "to David - as requested"\fP
.EE
The following lines are added to the message header:
.EX
Forwarded: Tue, 08 Jan 91 16:13:27 +0000
Forwarded: to David - as requested
.EE
.PP
The final example shows how 
.PN anno
prompts for the name of the header field, if the 
.B \-component 
option is not supplied:
.EX
% \f(CBanno\f(CW
Enter component name: \f(CBforwarded\fP
.EE
The following line is added to the message:
.EX
forwarded: Tue, 08 Jan 91 16:21:58 +0000
.EE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Profile Components
.TS
tab(+);
l l.
Path:+To determine your Mail directory
.TE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Files
.TP 10
.PN $HOME/\&.mh_profile
The user profile.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH See Also
dist(1mh), forw(1mh), repl(1mh)
