.TH ar 1 RISC
.SH Name
ar \- archive and library maintainer
.SH Syntax
.B ar
option [ \fIposname\fR ] archive file ...
.SH Description
The archiver 
.B ar 
maintains groups of files as
a single archive file.
This utility is generally used to 
create and update library files that the link editor uses; however, you
can use the archiver for other similar purposes.
.NT
This version
uses a portable ASCII-format archive that you can use on various
machines that run \s-2UNIX\s0.
If you have an archive that uses an older format, see 
.MS arcv 8 .
.SH Options
This section describes the options and suboptions 
that you can use with the 
.B ar
utility.  Suboptions must
be specified with options.
Following is a list and description of the options:
.TP
.B d
Deletes the specified files from the archive file.
.TP
.B r
Replaces the specified files in the archive file.
If you use the suboption
.B u
with
.B r,
the archiver only replaces those files that have last-modified dates later 
than the archive files.  If you use a positioning character (from the set
.B abi)
you must specify the
.I posname
argument to tell the archiver to put the new files after
.RB ( a )
or before
.RB ( b
or
.BR i ).
Otherwise, the archiver puts new files at the end of the archive.
.TP
.B q
Appends the specified files to the end of the archive file.
The archiver does not accept suboption positioning characters with the
\fBq\fR option.
It also does not check
whether the files you want to add already exist 
in the archive.
Use the \fBq\fR option
only to avoid quadratic behavior when you create a large
archive piece by piece.
.TP
.B t
Prints a table of contents for the files in the archive file.
If you do not specify any filenames, the archiver builds a table 
of contents for all files.
If you specify filenames, the archiver builds a table of contents only 
for those files.
.TP
.B p
Prints the specified files from the archive.
.TP
.B m
Moves the specified files to the end of the archive.
If you specify a
positioning character,
you must also specify the
.I posname
(as in option
.B r)
to tell the archiver where to move the files.
.TP
.B x
Extracts the specified files from the archive.
If you do not specify any filenames, the archiver extracts all files.
When it extracts files, the archiver does not change any file.
Normally, the last-modified date for each
extracted file shows the date when someone extracted it; however, when
you use 
.B o,
the archiver resets the last-modified date to the date recorded in the
archive.
.TP
.B s
Makes a symbol definition (symdef file) as the first file of an archive.
This file contains a hash table of
.I ranlib
structures and a corresponding string table. The symdef file's name is based on the byte
ordering of the hash table and the byte ordering of the file's target machine.
Files must be consistent in their target byte ordering before the 
archiver can create a symdef file.
If you change the archive contents, the symdef file becomes 
obsolete because the archive file's name changes.   
If you specify s,
the archiver
creates the symdef file as its last action before finishing execution.
You must specify at least one other archive option (m, p, q, r, or t) 
when you use the \fBs\fR option.  For UMIPS-V, archives include member
objects based on the definition of a common object only.  For UMIPS-BSD,
they define the common object, but do not include the object.
.TP
.B v
Gives a file-by-file description as the archiver makes a
new archive file from an old archive and its constituent files.
When you use this option with
.B t,
the archiver lists all information about the files in the archive.
When you use this option with
.BR p ,
the archiver
precedes each file with a name.
.TP
.B c
Suppresses the normal message that the archiver prints when 
it creates the specified archive file.  
Normally, the archiver
creates 
the specified archiver file 
when it needs to.
.TP
.B l
Places temporary files in the local directory.
If the l option is not used then the value of the environment
symbol, TMPDIR, is used as the directory for temporary files.
If TMPDIR is not defined or if the directory it references is
not writable then /tmp is used.
.PP
The suboptions do these things:
.TP
.B a
Specifies that the file goes after the existing file (\fIposname\fR).
Use this suboption with the \fBm\fR or \fBr\fR options.
.TP
.B b
Specifies that the file goes before the existing file (\fIposname\fR).
Use this suboption with the \fBm\fR or \fBr\fR options.
.TP
.B i
Specifies that the file goes before the existing file (\fIposname\fR).
Use this suboption with the \fBm\fR or \fBr\fR options.
.TP
.B o
Forces a newly created file to have the last-modified date that 
it had before it was extracted from the archive.  Use this suboption with the
\fBx\fR option.
.TP
.B u
Prevents the archiver from replacing an existing file unless the replacement 
is newer than the existing file.  This option uses the UNIX system last
modified date for this comparison.  Use this suboption with the \fBr\fR
option.
.SH Restrictions
If you specify the 
same file twice in an argument list,
it can appear twice in the archive file.
.PP
The \fBo\fR option does not change the last-modified date of a file
unless you own the extracted file or you are the superuser.
.PP
This command truncates filenames to 15 characters.
.SH Files
/tmp/v*	temporaries
.SH See Also
lorder(1), ld(1), odump(1), ranlib(1), ranhash(3x), ar(5), arcv(8)
