.\" SCCSID: @(#)bdiff.1	8.1	9/11/90
.TH bdiff 1
.SH Name
bdiff \- big file differential comparator
.SH Syntax
.B bdiff
\fIfile1\fR \fIfile2\fR [\fIn\fR]
[\fB\-s\fR]
.SH Description
.NXR "bdiff command"
.NXA "bdiff command" "diff command"
.NXR "file" "comparing"
The
.PN bdiff
command is used 
to find lines that must be changed in two files to bring them
into agreement.
Its purpose is to allow processing of files that are too large
for 
.MS diff 1 .
.PP
The 
.PN bdiff
command ignores lines common to the beginning of both files,
splits the remainder of each file into
.IR n \-line
segments, and invokes
.MS diff 1
upon corresponding segments.
The value of
.I n\^
is 3500 by default.
If the optional third argument is given and if it is
numeric, it is used as the value for
.IR n.
This is useful in those cases in which 3500-line segments are
too large for
.PN diff ,
causing it to fail.
.PP
The output of the
.PN bdiff
command is the same as the output of the
.PN diff
command:
line numbers are adjusted to account for the segmenting of the files
to make it look as if the files had been processed
whole.
Note that
because of the segmenting of the files,
.PN bdiff
does not necessarily find the
smallest sufficient set of file differences.
.PP 
If either
.I file1\^
or
.I file2 
is \fB\-\fR,
the standard input is read.
The optional
.B \-s
(silent) argument specifies that
no diagnostics are to be printed by
.PN bdiff .
However, this does not suppress possible exclamations by
.PN diff .
If both optional arguments are specified, they must appear in the
order indicated above.
.SH Options
.TP 20
.B \-s
Suppresses normal diagnostic messages.
.SH Diagnostics
Use 
.MS sccshelp 1
for explanations.
.SH Files
/tmp/bd?????
.SH See Also
diff(1)
