.\" SCCSID: @(#)calendar.1	8.1	9/11/90
.TH calendar 1 
.SH Name
calendar \- calendar reminder service
.SH Syntax
.B calendar
[\|\-\|]
.SH Description
.NXR "calendar command"
.NXR "reminder service" "creating a calendar"
.NXA "calendar command" "leave command"
The
.PN calendar 
command consults the file `calendar' in the current directory
and prints out lines that contain today's or
tomorrow's date.
The 
.PN calendar
command recognizes most month-day dates, such as Dec. 7,
december 7, 12/7, but it does not recognize dates formatted
in the following ways:  7 December or 7/12.
If you give the month as *
with a date, such as, * 1, that day in any month will do.
On weekends, specifying tomorrow extends through Monday.
.PP
When 
an argument is present, the
.PN calendar
command searches through a user's
calendar file in his login directory
and sends him any positive results by
.MS mail 1 .
Normally this is done daily under control of
.MS cron 8 .
.PP
The calendar file is first run through the C preprocessor,
.PN /lib/cpp ,
to include any other calendar files
specified with the #include syntax.
Included calendars are shared by all users, and are
maintained and documented by the local administration.
.SH Options
.TP 5
.B \-
Functions for every user who has a calendar file in his login directory.
.SH Restrictions
.NXR "calendar command" "restricted"
The
.PN calendar's
extended idea of tomorrow does not account for
holidays.
.SH Files
calendar
.br
/usr/lib/calendar to figure out today's and tomorrow's dates
.br
/etc/passwd
.br
/tmp/cal*
.br
/lib/cpp, egrep, sed, mail as subprocesses
.SH See Also
at(1), cron(8), mail(1)
