.\" SCCSID: @(#)cdc.1	8.1	9/11/90
.nr f 0
.de SP
.if n .ul
\%[\fB\-\\$1\fR\\c
.if n .ul 0
\\$2\\$3
..
.de C1
.if \\nf \{ \
.    RE
.    nr f 0 \}
.PP
.RS 5
.TP 15
\\$1
\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7 \\$8 \\$9
.nr f 1
..
.de A1
.if \\nf \{ \
.    RE
.    nr f 0 \}
.PP
.RS 5
.TP 15
\fB\-\\$1\fR[\fI\\$2\^\fR]
\\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7 \\$8 \\$9
.nr f 1
..
.de A2
.if \\nf \{ \
.    RE
.    nr f 0 \}
.PP
.RS 5
.TP 15
\fB\-\\$1\fR\fI\\$2\^\fR
\\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7 \\$8 \\$9
.nr f 1
..
.ds W) \fI\s-1Restrictions\s+1\^\fR
.ds X) \fI\s-1Examples\s+1\^\fR
.ds M) \fB\s-1MR\s+1\fR
.ds S) \s-1SCCS\s+1
.ds I) \fI\s-1SID\s+1\fR
.TH cdc 1
.SH Name
cdc \- change delta commentary of an SCCS file
.SH Syntax   
.B cdc
\fB\-r\fISID\fR [\fB\-m\fR[\fImrlist\fR\|]\|]  [\fB\-y\fR[\fIcomment\fR\|]\|] 
\fIfiles\fR
.SH Description
.NXR "cdc command (sccs)"
.NXR "SCCS file" "changing delta commentary"
.NXR "delta command (sccs)" "cdc command (sccs)"
The
.PN cdc
command changes the delta commentary of each named
SCCS file,
for the \*(I) specified by the
.B \-r
option.
.PP
The
delta commentary
is defined to be the Modification Request (MR) and comment
information usually specified by the
.PN delta 
command
.RB ( \-m
and
.B \-y
options).
.PP
The 
.PN delta
commentary may consist of one or
more lines, terminated by a dot in
column one of a new line.
.PP
If a directory is named,
.PN cdc
behaves as though each file in the directory were
specified as a named file,
except non-\*(S) files
(last component of the path name does not begin with \fBs.\fR)
and unreadable files,
which are silently ignored.
If a name of
.B \-
is given, the standard input is read (see RESTRICTIONS).
Each line of the standard input is taken to be the name of an \*(S) file
to be processed.
.PP
Arguments to
.PN cdc ,
which may appear in any order, consist of
option arguments, and file names.
.PP
All the described
option arguments apply independently to each named file.
.SH Options
.IP "\-m\fR[\fImrlist\fR]" 15
Adds or deletes modification numbers.  If the SCCS file has the 
v flag set then a
list of MR numbers to be added and/or deleted in
the delta commentary of
the \*(I) specified by the
.B \-r
option may be supplied.
For further information, see 
.MS admin 1 .
A null MR list has no effect.
.IP
MR entries are added to the list of MRs in the same manner as that of
.MS delta 1 .
In order to delete an MR, precede the MR number
with the character \fB!\fR (see 
Examples).
If the MR to be deleted is currently in the list of MRs, it is
removed
and changed into a comment line.
A list of all deleted MRs is placed in the comment section
of the delta commentary and is preceded by a comment line stating
that they were deleted.
.IP
If
.B \-m
is not used and the standard input is a terminal, the prompt
.B \s-1MR\s+1s?
is issued on the standard output before the standard input
is read.  If the standard input is not a terminal, no prompt is issued.
The \fB\s-1MR\s+1s?\fR prompt always precedes the \fBcomments?\fR prompt
(see
.B \-y
option).
.br
MRs in a list are separated by blanks and/or tab characters.
An unescaped new-line character terminates the
MR
list.
.IP
Note that if the
.B v
flag has a value
it is taken to be the name of a program (or shell procedure) which validates
the correctness of the MR numbers.
For further information, see 
.MS admin 1 .
If a nonzero exit status is returned from the MR number validation program,
.PN cdc
terminates
and the delta commentary remains unchanged.
.IP "\-r\fISID\fR"
Specifies the SCCS Identification string of a delta for
which the delta commentary is to be changed.
.IP "\-y\fR[\fIcomment\fR]"
Replaces existing commentary
for the delta specified by the
.B \-r
option.
The previous comments are kept and preceded by a comment
line stating that they were changed.
A null \fIcomment\^\fR has no effect.
.IP
If
.B \-y
is not specified and the standard input is a terminal, the
prompt \fBcomments?\fR is issued on the standard output before
the standard input is read;
if the standard input is not a terminal, no prompt is issued.
A dot in column one of a new line terminates the
.I comment
text.
.PP
Certain permissions are necessary to modify the \*(S) file;
generally, however, if you made the delta, you can
change its delta commentary, and 
if you own the file and directory you can modify the delta commentary.
.SH Examples
.NXR "cdc command (sccs)"
This example shows how to add
bl78-12345 and bl79-00001 to the MR list, remove bl77-54321
from the MR list, and add the comment 
\fB``trouble''\fR to delta 1\fB.\fR6
of s\fB.\fRfile.
.EX
sccscdc \-r1.6 \-m"bl78-12345 !bl77-54321 bl79-00001" \-ytrouble .file
.EE
.PP
This example does the same thing.
.EX
sccscdc \-r1.6 .file

\-MRs? !bl77-54321 bl78-12345 bl79-00001

comments? trouble
.EE
.SH Restrictions 
.NXR "cdc command (sccs)" "restricted"
If \*(S) file names are supplied to the
.PN cdc
command via the standard input
(\fB\-\fR on the command line),
then the
.B \-m
and
.B \-y
options must also be used.
.SH Diagnostics 
See
.MS sccshelp 1
for explanations.
.SH Files
.TP 10
.PN x-file
For more information, see
.MS delta 1
.TP
.PN z-file
For more information, see
.MS delta 1
.SH See Also
admin(1), delta(1), get(1), help(1), prs(1),
sccs(1), sccsfile(5)
.br
\fIGuide to the Source Code Control System\fP
