.TH cdoc 1
.SH Name
cdoc \- invokes CDA Converter 
.SH Syntax
.B cdoc
[ \-s \fIformat\fP ] [ \-d \fIformat\fP ] [ \-O \fIoptions_file\fP ]
[ \-o \fIoutputfile\fP ] \fIinputfile\fP
.SH Description
.NXR "cdoc command"
The
.PN cdoc
command converts the revisable format file, \fIinputfile\fP,
to another revisable format or to a final form file.  If
\fIinputfile\fP is not specified,
.PN cdoc
reads from standard input.  Unless a destination file is
specified with the \-o option, the
.PN cdoc
command writes files to standard output.
.SH Options
.TP 20
.B \-s \fIformat\fP
Specifies the format of \fIinputfile\fP and invokes an appropriate input
converter as part of CDA. The ddif, dtif, dots (for analysis output
only) and text converters are provided in the base system kit.
Additional converters can be added by the CDA Converter Library and
other layered products.  Converter Library and other layered products.
Contact your system manager for a complete list of the input formats 
supported on your system. The default format is ddif.
.TP 20
.B \-d \fIformat\fP
Specifies the format of \fIoutputfile\fP and invokes an appropriate output
converter as part of CDA. The ddif, dtif, text, analysis, and ps converters are
provided in the base system kit. Additional converters can be added by the
CDA Converter Library and other layered products. Contact your system
manager for a complete list of the output formats supported on your system.
The default format is ddif.
.TP 20
.B \-O \fIoptions_file\fP
Names the file passed to the input and output converters to control
specific processing options for each converter.
Refer to your documentation set for a description of converter options.
.IP "" 20
The options file has a default file type of .cda_options. Each line of the
options file specifies a format name that can optionally be followed by
_input or _output to restrict the option to either an input or output 
converter. The second word is a valid option preceded by one or more spaces, 
tabs, or a slash (/) and can contain upper- and lowercase letters, numbers, 
dollar signs, and underlines. The case of letters is not significant. If an 
option requires a value, then spaces, tabs, or an equal sign can separate the
option from the value. 
.IP "" 20
Each line can optionally be preceded by spaces and tabs and can be
terminated by any character other than those that can be used to specify
the format names and options. The syntax and interpretation of
the text that follows the format name is specified by the supplier of the
front and back end converters for the specified format. 
.IP "" 20
To specify several options for the same input or output format, specify one
option on a line. If an invalid option for an input or output format or an
invalid value for an option is specified, the option may be ignored or an
error message may be returned. Each input or output format that supports
processing options specifies any restrictions or special formats required
when specifying options. 
.IP "" 20
By default, any messages that occur during processing of the options file 
are written to the system \fIstandard error location\fP.  For those
input and output formats that support a LOG option, messages can be 
directed to a log file. 
.TP 20
.B \-o \fIoutputfile\fP
Specifies the name of the output file.  If not specified,
.PN cdoc
writes to standard output.
.SH See Also
vdoc(1), dxvdoc(1X), DDIF(5), DTIF(5), DOTS(5), CDA(5)
