.\" SCCSID: @(#)comb.1	8.1	9/11/90
.tr ~
.nr f 0
.bd S B 3
.de SP
.if n .ul
\%[\fB\-\\$1\fR\\c
.if n .ul 0
\\$2\\$3
..
.de SF
.if n .ul
\%[\fB\-\\$1\fR]
.if n .ul 0
..
.de AR
.if \\nf \{ \
.    RE
.    nr f 0 \}
.PP
.TP 8
\fB\-\\$1\\fR
\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7 \\$8 \\$9
.nr f 1
..
.de A2
.if \\nf \{ \
.    RE
.    nr f 0 \}
.PP
.TP 8
\fB\-\\$1\fI\\$2\fR
\\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7 \\$8 \\$9
.nr f 1
..
.TH comb 1
.SH Name
comb \- combine delta versions of SCCS file 
.SH Syntax   
.B comb
[\fB\-o\fR] [\fB\-s\fR] [\fB\-p\fIsid\fR\|] [\fB\-c\fIlist\fR\|] \fIfiles\fR
.SH Description
.NXR "comb command (sccs)"
.NXR "SCCS file" "reconstructing"
The
.PN comb
command generates a shell procedure
which, when run, will reconstruct the given \s-1SCCS\s+1 files.
For further information, see
.MS sh 1 .
The reconstructed files are generally smaller than the original
files.
The arguments may be specified in any order,
but all keyletter arguments apply to all named \s-1SCCS\s+1 files.
If a directory is named,
.PN comb
behaves as though each file in the directory were
specified as a named file,
except non-\s-1SCCS\s+1 files
(last component of the path name does not begin with \fBs.\fR)
and unreadable files,
which are silently ignored.
If a name of \fB\-\fR is given, the standard input is read;
each line of the standard input is taken to be the name of an \s-1SCCS\s+1 file
to be processed.
.PP
The generated shell procedure is written on the standard output.
.PP
Each keyletter argument is explained as though 
only one named file is to be processed,
but the effects of any keyletter argument apply independently
to each named file.
.SH Options
.NXR "comb command (sccs)" "options"
.IP \fB\-c\fIlist\fR 10 
Preserves specified deltas.
See
.MS get 1
for the syntax of a \fIlist\fR.
All other deltas are discarded.
.IP \fB\-o\fR 
Causes the reconstructed file to be accessed at
the release of the delta to be created.
Otherwise the reconstructed file would be accessed at
the most recent ancestor.
Use of the
.B \-o
keyletter may decrease the size of the reconstructed \s-1SCCS\s+1 file.
It may also alter the shape of the delta tree of the original file.
.IP \fB\-p\fISID\fR 
Indicates oldest delta to be preserved.
All older deltas are discarded in the reconstructed file.
.IP \fB\-s\fR 
Generates a shell procedure which 
produces a report. 
This report gives the file name, size (in blocks) after combining,
original size (also in blocks), and
percentage change
computed by:
.br
.ce 1
\%100~\fB\(**\fR~(original~\-~combined)~/~original
.br
It is  recommended that before any \s-1SCCS\s+1 files are actually combined,
one should use this option to determine exactly how much space
is saved by the combining process.
.PP
If no keyletter arguments are specified,
.PN comb
will preserve only leaf deltas and the minimal number of ancestors
needed to preserve the tree.
.SH Restrictions
.NXR "comb command (sccs)" "restricted"
The
.PN comb
command may rearrange the shape of the tree of deltas.
It may not save any space;
in fact, it is possible for the reconstructed file to
actually be larger than the original.
.PD
.SH Diagnostics
See
.MS sccshelp 1
for explanations.
.tr ~~
.SH Files
.PD 0
.TP 14
.RB s . \s-1COMB\s+1
The name of the reconstructed \s-1SCCS\s+1 file.
.RE
.TP 14
comb?????
Temporary.
.SH See Also
admin(1), delta(1), get(1), help(1), prs(1), sccs(1), sccsfile(5)
.br
\fIGuide to the Source Code Control System\fP
