.TH cpustat 1 
.SH Name
cpustat \- report CPU statistics
.SH Syntax
.B cpustat
[\fB\-cfhsv\fR] [\fIinterval\fR [\fIcount\fR]] 
.SH Description
The
.PN cpustat
command displays statistics about the use and state of each CPU in the
system. 
.NXR "SMP" "reporting CPU statistics"
.NXR "cpustat command (SMP)"
.NXR "CPU" "getting state information about"
.NXR "CPU" "getting statistics about"
The information about the CPU might change while the
.PN cpustat
command is running, so the information it gives is a snapshot taken at a
given time.
.PP
Normally, the 
.PN cpustat
command displays the statistics and state only once. You can cause the
command to repeat the display by specifying a decimal number in the
\fIinterval\fR argument. The
.PN cpustat
command repeats the display until it is interrupted, for example, by a
control character entered at the terminal.
.PP
You can limit the number of times the
.PN cpustat
command repeats the display by specifying an integer in the \fIcount\fR
argument. 
.PP
The
.PN cpustat
command provides an interactive interface that you can invoke using the
.B \-f
option.
.PP
The following describes the fields in the
.PN cpustat
display:
.PP
Statistics: Information about how each CPU's time is being used
.RS 5
.TP 9
us%
Percent of time spent in user mode
.TP 9
ni%
Percent of time spent in nice mode
.TP 9
sy%
Percent of time spent in system mode
.TP 9
id%
Percent of time spent idle 
.TP 9
csw
Number of context switches
.TP 9
sys
Number of system calls
.TP 9
trap
Number of traps
.TP 9
intr
Number of device interrupts
.TP 9
ipi
Number of interprocessor interrupts
.TP 9
ttyin
Number of characters input to the terminal
.TP 9
ttyout
Number of characters output to the terminal 
.RE
.PP
State: Information about the different states of each CPU
.RS 5
.TP 9
cpuid
Unique identifier of the CPU.
.TP 9
state
CPU state.
.RS 12
B - boot CPU
.br
D - disable soft errors
.br
S - stopped
.br
R - running
.br
T - TB needs invalidation
.br
P - panicked
.RE
.TP 9
ipi-mask
interprocessor interrupt mask 
.RS 12
P - panic
.br
R - console print
.br
S - schedule
.br
D - disable
.br
T - TB invalidation
.br
H - stop CPU
.RE
.TP 9
proc
Indication of whether the CPU has an associated process. A Y indicates
that an associated process exists, while an N indicates that no associated
process exists.
.TP 9
pid
Process ID of the running process.
.PP
If any statistic field value exceeds 9999, it is shown in a scaled
representation with the suffix k, which indicates multiplication
by 1000, or with the suffix m, which indicates multiplication by 1,000,000.  
For example, the value 12,345 would appear as 12k.
.SH Options
.IP \-c 5
Displays only the statistics for each CPU.
.IP \-f
Displays statistics and state information on a full screen.
If you use the 
.B \-f 
option, you are prompted to enter one of the following commands:
.RS
.IP c 5
Displays only statistics about each CPU.
.IP d
Uses the default mode of display.
.IP h
Displays the help screen. To return to the original display screen,
enter any character. 
.IP q
Quits from the full screen display.
.IP s 
Displays only state information about each CPU.
.IP v
Displays information about each vector processor and omits information
about other processors.
.RE
.IP \-s
Displays only state information about each CPU.
.IP \-h
Provides help information about the usage of the
.PN cpustat
command.
.IP \-v
Displays information about each vector processor and omits information
about other processors. When
.PN cpustat
displays information about vector processors, it adds the
following information to the display:
.RS
.IP "vp state" 10
Indicates that the vector processor is operational (OK), not usable
(DEAD), enabled (ENA), or disabled (DIS). The
.PN cpustat
command display may contain a combination of these states.
.IP "vp owner"
PID of the vector process whose context is stored in the vector
processor.
.IP "chp cxsw"
Number of context switches in which the process whose context
changed is the only process using a particular vector processor. Because
no other process uses the vector processor, the register data associated
with the processor does not change. Therefore, the system does not need
to save and restore the register data; the data remains in the registers
until the process is ready to use it.
.IP "exp cxsw"
Number of context switches in which a number of processes might
be using the same vector processor.  When more than one process uses the
same processor, the register data associated with the processor might be
changed by any process. Therefore, the system saves and restores the
register data during a context switch for any process.
.IP "succ req"
Number of times the vector process has successfully allocated the vector
processor.
.IP "failed req"
Number of times the vector process has been refused vector processor
allocation.
.RE
.PP
If you omit all options,
.PN cpustat
reports a summary of the statistics
since the system has been booted and the state of each CPU.
.SH Examples
To print the system status every five seconds ten 
times, enter the following command:
.EX
% \f(CBcpustat 5 10\fP 
.EE
.SH Files
.TP 15
.PN /dev/kmem 
Virtual main memory image
.TP
.PN /vmunix
System namelist
.SH See Also
iostat(1), vmstat(1)
