.TH ctod 1
.SH Name
ctod \- combine DDIS objects into DOTS format
.SH Syntax
.B ctod
[ 
.B \-x
]
.I object.ddis
.SH Description
.NXR "ctod command"
The
.PN ctod
command combines a DDIS encoded object into a Data Object Transport
Syntax (DOTS) format, which is written to standard output.  The object
may contain references to other DDIS files.  The purpose of
.PN ctod
is to create a single file from multiple references to other
files, in order to transfer or move DDIS objects from one
location to another.
.PP
.I object.ddis
is a file name, or a minus sign (\-) for standard input.  If
a minus sign is specified, or if
no file name is present, standard input is read.  The named object and
its external references, if any, are combined into a DOTS data stream
which is written to standard output.
.PP
Because a DOTS stream contains binary data, 
.PN ctod
output should be redirected to a file or a pipe.
.PP
.SH Options
.TP 5
.B \-x
Specifies that
.PN ctod
is to DOTS encode the input file without resolving any external
references present in the file.  This option is for use only with files
containing no external references.
.PP
.SH Restrictions
The only DDIS object types supported in this release are DDIF and DTIF.
.PP
.SH Diagnostics
.PP
The exit status is 0 if all files were combined successfully and 1 if
any of the files could not be combined.  Consult
`standard error' to see what files failed, and why.
.PP
If the \fB\-x\fP option is used and
.PN object.ddis
contains any external references,
.PN ctod
returns an error status of 1, and writes an error message to
`standard error'.
.SH See Also
dtoc(1), DDIS(5), DDIF(5), DTIF(5), DOTS(5)
