.\" SCCSID: @(#)cxref.1	3.3	9/16/88
.TH cxref 1
.SH Name
cxref \- generate C program cross reference
.SH Syntax
.B cxref
[\|\fIoptions\fR\|] \fIfiles\fR
.SH Description
.NXR "cxref command"
.NXR "file" "xcpp file"
.NXA "cc compiler" "cxref command"
.NXR "C program" "building cross-reference table"
The
.PN cxref
command analyzes a collection of C files
and attempts to build a cross reference table.
The
.PN cxref
command
utilizes a special version of
.PN cpp
to include
.BR #define 'd
information in its symbol table.
It produces a listing on standard output of all symbols (auto, static,
and global) in each file separately, or with the
.B \-c
option, in combination.
Each symbol 
contains an asterisk (\(**) before the declaring reference.
.SH Options
.IP \-c 10
Prints a combined cross-reference of all input files.
.IP "\-D\fIname\fR"
Defines 
.I name 
to processor, as if by 
.I #define.
Default value is 1.
.IP "\-I\fIdir\fR"
Searches named directory for 
.PN #include
files whose names do not begin 
with a backslash (/).
.IP "\-o \fIfile\fR"
Directs output to named \fIfile\fP.
.IP \-s
Operates silently; does not print input file names.
.IP \-t
Formats listing for 80-column width.
.IP "\-U\fIname\fR"
Removes any initial definition of 
.I name.
.IP \-w<\fInum\fR>
Width option which formats output no wider than <\fInum\fR> 
(decimal) columns.  This option will default to 80 
if <\fInum\fR> is not specified or is less than 51.
.SH Diagnostics
Error messages usually indicate a problem that will prevent the file
from compiling.
.SH Files
.TP \w'/usr/lib/xcpp\ \ \ \ 'u
/usr/lib/xcpp
special version of C-preprocessor.
.SH See Also
cc(1).
