.\" SCCSID: @(#)delta.1	8.1	9/11/90
.nr f 0
.bd S B 3
.de SP
.if n .ul
\%[\fB\-\\$1\fR\\c
.if n .ul 0
\\$2\\$3
..
.de SF
.if n .ul
\%[\fB\-\\$1\fR]
.if n .ul 0
..
.de AR
.if \\nf \{ \
.    RE
.    nr f 0 \}
.PP
.RS 5
.TP 15
\fB\-\\$1\\fR
\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7 \\$8 \\$9
.nr f 1
..
.de C1
.if \\nf \{ \
.    RE
.    nr f 0 \}
.PP
.RS 5
.TP 15
\\$1
\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7 \\$8 \\$9
.nr f 1
..
.de A1
.if \\nf \{ \
.    RE
.    nr f 0 \}
.PP
.RS 5
.TP 15
\fB\-\\$1\fR[\fI\\$2\fR]
\\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7 \\$8 \\$9
.nr f 1
..
.de A2
.if \\nf \{ \
.    RE
.    nr f 0 \}
.PP
.RS 5
.TP 15
\fB\-\\$1\fI\\$2\fR
\\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7 \\$8 \\$9
.nr f 1
..
.ds W)  \fI\s-1RESTRICTIONS\s+1\fR
.ds M)  \fB\s-1MR\s+1\fR
.ds S)  \s-1SCCS\s+1
.ds I)  \s-1SID\s+1
.TH delta 1
.SH Name
delta \- create new SCCS delta to save changes
.SH Syntax  
.B delta
[\fB\-r\fISID\fR\|] [\fB\-s\fR] [\fB\-n\fR] [\fB\-g\fIlist\fR\|]
[\fB\-m\fR\|[\fImrlist\fR\|]\|] [\fB\-y\fR\|[c\fIomment\fR\|]\|]
[\fB\-p\fR] \fIfiles\fR
.SH Description
.NXB "delta command (sccs)"
.NXA "delta command (sccs)" "rmdel command (sccs)"
.NXB "sccs preprocessor" "changing file"
The
.PN delta
command is used to permanently introduce into
the named \*(S) file changes that were made to the file retrieved by
.MS get 1
(called the
.IR g-file ,
or generated file).
.PP
The
.PN delta
command
makes a delta to each named \*(S) file.
If a directory is named,
.PN delta
behaves as though each file in the directory were
specified as a named file,
except that non-\*(S) files
(last component of the path name does not begin with \fBs.\fR)
and unreadable files
are silently ignored.
If a name of \fB\-\fR is given, the standard input is read
(see RESTRICTIONS);
each line of the standard input is taken to be the name of an \*(S) file
to be processed.
.PP
The
.PN delta
command may issue prompts on the standard output depending upon
certain keyletters specified and flags
that may be
present in the \*(S) file.
For further information, see
.B \-m
and
.B \-y
keyletters below and 
.MS admin 1 .
.PP
The
.PN delta
includes commentary, input by the user,
that consists of one or more lines,
terminated by a period (.) in
column one of a new line.
.PP
Keyletter arguments
apply independently
to each named file.
.SH Options
.NXB "delta command (sccs)" "keyletters"
Keyletter arguments:
.IP \fB\-g\fIlist\fR 20
Ignores specified list of deltas.
.IP \fB\-m\fR[\fImrlist\fR] 20
Indicates the modification request number.  
(\fB\-m\fR[\fImrlist\fR]).
.RS 20
.sp
If
.B \-m
is not used and the standard input is a terminal, the prompt
.SM
.B MR\*Ss?
is issued on the standard output before the standard input
is read; if the standard input is not a terminal, no prompt is issued.
The
.SM
.B MR\*Ss?
prompt always precedes the
.B comments?
prompt
(see
.B \-y
keyletter).
.PP
MRs in a list are separated by blanks and/or tab characters.
An unescaped new-line character terminates the \*(M) list.
.PP
Note
that if the
.B v
flag has a value
it is taken to be the name of a program (or shell procedure) which will validate
the correctness of the \*(M) numbers.
For further information, see 
.MS admin 1 .
If a non-zero exit status is returned from \*(M) number validation program,
.PN delta
terminates
(it is assumed that the \*(M) numbers were not all valid).
.RE
.IP \fB\-n\fR 20
Does not delete edited file.
.IP \fB\-p\fR 20
Displays differences before and after delta is applied.
.IP \fB\-r\fISID\fR 20
Identifies which delta is to be made to the \*(S) file.
Use this keyletter only if two or more
outstanding
.IR get s
for editing
.RB ( "get \-e" )
on the same \*(S) file has been done by the same person
(login name).
The \*(I) value specified with the
.B \-r
keyletter can be either the \*(I) specified on the
.PN get
command line or the \*(I) to be made as reported by the
.PN get
command.
For further information, see 
.MS get 1 .
A diagnostic results if the specified \*(I) is ambiguous, or,
if necessary and omitted on the command line.
.IP \fB\-s\fR 20
Suppresses all messages.
.IP \fB\-y\fR[\fIcomment\fR] 20
Creates delta with specified commentary.
text
A null string is considered a valid \fIcomment\fR.
.br
If
.B \-y
is not specified and the standard input is a terminal, the prompt
.B comments?
is issued on the standard output before the standard
input is read; if the standard input is not a terminal, no
prompt is issued.
A period (.) in column one of a newline terminates the
.I comment
text.
.RE
.NXE "delta command (sccs)" "keyletters"
.SH Restrictions 
.NXR "delta command (sccs)" "restricted"
Lines beginning with an \s-1\fBSOH\fP ASCII\s+1 character (binary 001)
cannot be placed in the \*(S) file unless the
.SM
.B SOH
is escaped.
This character has special meaning to \*(S)
and will cause an error.
For further information, see
.MS sccsfile 5 .
.PP
A
.PN get
of many \*(S) files,
followed by a
.PN delta
of those files, should be avoided when the
.PN get
generates a large amount of data.
Instead,
multiple
.PN "get/delta\^"
sequences should be used.
.PP
If the standard input
(\fB\-\fR)
is specified on the
.PN delta
command line, the
.B \-m
(if necessary)
and
.B \-y
keyletters must also be present.
Omission of these keyletters causes an error to occur.
.PP
.SH Diagnostics
See
.MS sccshelp 1
for explanations.
.SH Files
.TP 20
g-file
Existed
before the execution of
.PN delta;
removed after completion of
.PN delta .
.TP
p-file
Existed
before the execution of
.B delta;
may exist after completion of
.PN delta .
.TP
q-file
Created during the execution of
.PN delta;
removed after completion of
.PN delta .
.TP
x-file
Created during the execution of
.PN delta;
renamed to \*(S) file after completion of
.PN delta .
.TP
z-file
Created during the execution of
.PN delta;
removed during the execution of
.PN delta .
.TP
d-file
Created during the execution of
.PN delta;
removed after completion of
.PN delta .
.TP
/usr/bin/bdiff
Program to compute differences
between the ``gotten'' file and the
.IR g-file .
.PD
.SH See Also
admin(1), bdiff(1), cdc(1), get(1), help(1), prs(1),
rmdel(1), sccs(1), sccsfile(5)
.br
\fIGuide to the Source Code Control System\fP
.NXE "sccs preprocessor" "changing file"
.NXE "delta command (sccs)"
