.TH ex 1
.SH Name
ex, edit \- text editor
.SH Syntax
.B ex
[
.B \-
] [
.B \-v
] [
.B \-x
] [
.B \-t 
tag
] [
.B \-r
] [
\fB\+\fIcommand\fR
] [
.B \-l
]
\fIname\fR...
.br
.B edit
[
ex options
]
.SH Description
.NXR "editors" "ex"
.NXR "editors" "edit"
.NXR "encryption" "ex editor"
.NXR "ex editor"
The
.PN ex
editor is the root of a family of editors:
.PN edit ,
.PN ex
and
.PN vi .
The
.PN ex
editor is a superset of
.PN ed ,
with the most notable extension being a display-editing facility.
Display-based editing is the focus of
.PN vi .
.PP
The 
.I name 
argument indicates the files to be edited.
.SH Options
.IP \- 5
Suppresses all interactive-user feedback.
This option is useful in processing editor scripts in command
files.
.IP \-v
Equivalent to using 
.PN vi
rather than 
.PN ex .
.IP \-t
Equivalent to an initial 
.I tag 
command, that is,
editing the file containing the
.I tag
and positioning the editor at its definition.
.IP \-r
Used to recover after an editor or system crash.
It recovers by retrieving the last saved version of the named
.I file.
If no
.I file
is specified, it displays a list of saved files.
.IP \-R
Sets the read-only option at the start.
.IP +\fIcommand\fR
Indicates that the editor should begin
by executing the specified command.  If the command
is omitted, it defaults to 
.B $, 
positioning the editor at the last line of the first file, initially.
Other useful commands here are scanning patterns of the form
.B +/\fIpattern\fR
or line numbers.
.IP \-l
Sets up for LISP.
That is, it sets the
.I showmatch 
and 
.I lisp
options.
.NT
The 
.B \-x
option is available only if the Encryption 
layered product is installed.
.NE
.IP \-x 5
Causes 
.PN ex
to prompt for a key. The key is used to encrypt and 
decrypt the contents of the file. If the file contents 
have been encrypted with one key, you must 
use the same key to decrypt them.
.SH Restrictions
The
.PN undo
command causes all marks to be lost on lines changed and then restored
if the marked lines were changed.
.PP
The
.PN undo
command does not clear the buffer modified condition.
.PP
The
.I z
command prints a number of logical rather than physical lines.
More than a screenful of output may result if long lines are present.
.PP
File input/output errors do not print a 
name if the command line minus sign (\fB\-\fR)
option is used.
.PP
There is no easy way to do a single scan ignoring case.
.PP
The editor does not warn you if you place text 
in named buffers and do not use it
before exiting the editor.
.PP
Null characters are discarded from input files, 
and cannot appear in output
files.
.SH Files
.DT
/usr/lib/ex?.?recover		recover command
.br
/usr/lib/ex?.?preserve		preserve command
.br
/etc/termcap			terminal capabilities 
.br
~/.exrc				editor startup file
.br
/tmp/Ex\fInnnnn\fR			editor temporary
.br
/tmp/Rx\fInnnnn\fR			named buffer temporary
.br
/usr/preserve			preservation directory
.SH See Also
awk(1), ed(1), grep(1), sed(1), vi(1), termcap(5), environ(7)
.br
"Edit: A Tutorial"
and the 
"Ex Reference Manual" in the
.br
\fISupplementary Documents, Volume 1: General User\fP
