.\" SCCSID: @(#)finger.1	8.1	9/11/90
.TH finger 1
.SH Name
finger \- print user finger information
.SH Syntax
\fBfinger\fR [\|\fIoptions\fR\|] [\|\fIname\fR...\|]
.SH Description
.NXR "finger command"
.NXR "system" "listing user information"
.NXR "finger command" "and the who command"
By default,
.PN finger
lists the login name, full name, terminal
name and write status,
idle time, login time, and
office location and phone number for
each current ULTRIX user.  Terminal write status is noted
as an asterisk (*) before the terminal name if write
permission is denied.  Idle time is given in minutes if the
listing shows a
single integer, hours and minutes if a colon (:) is present, or
days and hours if a d is present.
.PP
A longer format also exists and is used by 
.PN finger 
whenever a
list of people's names is given.  (Account names as well as
first and last names of users are accepted.) This format is
multi-line, and includes all the information described above
as well as the user's home directory and login shell.  Additionally, it
displays the information contained in the files \.plan and \.project,
both of which are located in the user's home directory.
If no list is given, all the people currently logged in are
shown.
.PP
The
.PN finger 
command may be used to look up users on a remote machine.  The format is to
specify the user as user@host.  If the user name is left off, 
the standard format listing is provided on the remote machine. 
.SH Options
.NXR "finger command" "options"
.IP \fB\-b\fR 5
Displays a briefer long form list of users.
.IP \fB\-f\fR 
Disables printing of headers for short and quick outputs.
.IP \fB\-h\fR 
Suppresses printing of the .project file.
.IP \fB\-i\fR 
Displays list of users with idle times.
.IP \fB\-l\fR 
Displays output in long format.
.IP \fB\-m\fR 
Matches arguments only on user name.
.IP \fB\-p\fR 
Suppresses printing of the .plan file.
.IP \fB\-q\fR 
Displays list of users.
.IP \fB\-s\fR 
Displays output in short format.
.IP \fB\-w\fR 
Displays narrow short format of specified users.
.SH Restrictions
.NXR "finger command" "restricted"
.PP
Only the first line of the .project file is printed.
.PP
The user's 
.PN \&.plan 
or 
.PN \&.project 
file cannot be a link to another file.
If either of these files is something other than a regular
file, it will be ignored.
.SH Files
.TP 20
.PN /etc/utmp
Who file
.TP 
.PN /etc/passwd
User information
.TP 
.PN /usr/adm/lastlog
Last login times
.TP 
.PN ~/.plan
Plans
.TP 
.PN ~/.project
Projects
.SH See Also
chfn(1), w(1), who(1), fingerd(8c)
