.TH gencat 1int
.SH Name
gencat \- generate a formatted message catalog
.SH Syntax
.B gencat 
.I catalog_file
.RI [ source_file
\&...]
.SH Description
.NXR "gencat utility"
The 
.PN gencat
command takes one or more message source 
files and either creates a new catalog
or merges new message text into an existing catalog. 
You should use the extension 
.PN \&.msf 
for message text files (for example, 
.PN msgfile.msf 
) and the extension
.PN \&.cat
for catalogs (for example, 
.PN catfile.cat
) to process files 
with the 
.PN gencat 
command. 
.PP
In some cases, a formatted message catalog exists that has the same
name the one that
.PN gencat
is creating.  When this occurs, 
.PN gencat 
merges the messages from the source message catalogs into this
existing formatted message catalog.  The command merges the source
message catalogs into the formatted message catalog in the same manner
as it merges a group of source message catalogs.  If a source message
catalog contains the same set number or message number as a set or
message in the formatted message catalog, the source message catalog
set or message has precedence. For example, if both the source and
formatted message catalogs contain a message number 25, the message
text for message 25 in the source message catalog replaces the message
text in the formatted message catalog.  Thus, when source message
catalogs are merged with formatted message catalogs, the formatted
catalogs are updated.
.PP
If you do not specify a source file, the
.PN gencat
command accepts message source data from standard input.
.PP
Numeric message source files are portable between X/Open systems.
.PP
For information on the source format for messages files, see the 
\fIGuide to Developing International Software\fP.
.SH Restrictions
The
.PN gencat
command does not accept mnemonic identifiers.
You must run the
.PN mkcatdefs
command if you want to use mnemonic 
identifiers.
.SH See Also
extract(1int), mkcatdefs(1int), trans(1int), catgets(3int), 
catopen(3int), intro(3int), environ(5int) 
.br
\fIGuide to Developing International Software\fP
