.TH invcutter 1
.SH Name
invcutter \- generate subset inventory files
.SH Syntax
.B /usr/sys/dist/invcutter 
[
.B \-d
]
[
.B \-f
.I root-path
]
[
.B \-f
.I version-code
]
.SH Description
The
.PN invcutter
command reads master inventory records from standard input.
.NX R "invcutter command"
.NX R "Software kits" "producing inventory records for"
A subset inventory record is written to standard output for
every record read from the input. The information contained
in the output record is derived from the
input record and the
file attribute information in the file hierarchy rooted
in the current directory.
.SH Options
.IP \-d 20
Enable debugging. No useful diagnostics are printed.
.IP "\-f \fIroot-path\fP"
Specify an alternate root path for finding file attribute
information.
.IP "\-v version-code"
Specify a 3-digit version code for use in the version
field of the output records. The default version code is
.I 010.
.SH Restrictions
All input records must be sorted in ascending order on the
pathname field.
.PP
Files described in an input record which exist as sockets
in the file hierarchy are not processable.
.PP
If a file is described in an input record has a link count
greater than 1, all other links to the file must be represented
in the input.
.SH Examples
The following command will generate inventory records for the
master inventory entries in
.I PDS020.mi
containing version fields
set to
.I 020:
.EX
    invcutter \-v 020 < PDS020.mi
.EE
.SH Return Values
An exit status of 0 is returned if all goes well. An exit status
of 1 is returned if an error occurs. See Diagnostics.
.SH Diagnostics
"\fBcannot chdir to \fIpathname\fP (\fIerror-message\fP)\fR"
.br
The program cannot change directories to the
.I pathname
directory specified with the
.B \-f
option. The
.I error-message
will provide additional information.
.PP
"\fBsort error, record #\fIn\fR"
.br
The \fIn\fRth input record is
not in the correct sort order. All input records must be
in ascending ASCII colating sequence on the pathname field.
.PP
"\fBcannot stat \fIfilename\fP (\fIerror-message\fP)\fR"
.br
An error has occurred attempting to read the attributes of
.I filename.
The
.I error-message
explains exactly what happened.
.PP
"\fIpathname\fB: illegal file type code 0140000\fR"
.br
The file
.I pathname
is a socket. Sockets are not supported as valid file types for
distribution.
.PP
"\fBunresolved nlink\fI n: pathname\fR"
.br
This indicates that file
.I pathname
in the master inventory is linked to
.I n
files which do not appear in the master inventory. Check inventory
for validity with the
.PN newinv
program.
.PP
"\fIn\fB unresolved hard links\fR"
.br
This is an informational message stating how many files
were detected in the input inventory which had unresolved links.
.SH See Also
newinv(1), stl_inv(5), stl_mi(5)
.br
\fIGuide to Preparing Software for Distribution on ULTRIX Systems\fP
