.\" SCCSID: @(#)ipcrm.1	8.1	9/11/90
.TH ipcrm 1
.SH Name
ipcrm \- remove a message queue, semaphore set 
.SH Syntax
.ft B
ipcrm [\|\fIoptions\fR\|]
.SH Description
.NXR "ipcrm command"
.NXAM "ipcrm command" "semctl system call"
.NXAM "ipcrm command" "msgctl system call"
.NXR "message queue" "removing"
.NXR "semaphore set" "removing"
.NXR "shared memory ID" "removing"
The
.PN ipcrm
command
removes one or more specified messages, semaphores or shared memory
identifiers.  
.PP
The details of the removes are described in
.MS msgctl 2 ,
.MS shmctl 2 ,
and 
.MS semctl 2 .
The identifiers and keys may be found by
.MS ipcs 1 .
.SH Options
.IP "\fB\-q\fI msqid\fR" 20
Removes the message queue identifier \fImsqid\fR
from the system and destroys the message queue
and data structure associated with it.
.IP "\fB\-m\fI shmid\fR"
Removes the shared memory identifier \fIshmid\fR
from the system.  The shared memory segment and data
structure associated with it are destroyed after
the last detach.
.IP "\fB\-s\fI semid\fR"
Removes the semaphore identifier \fIsemid\fR
from the system and destroys the set of semaphores and
data structure associated with it.
.IP "\fB\-Q\fI msgkey\fR"
Removes the message queue identifier, created with key \fImsgkey\fR,
from the system and destroys the message queue
and data structure associated with it.
.IP "\fB\-M\fI shmkey\fR"
Removes the shared memory identifier, created with key \fIshmkey\fR,
from the system.  The shared memory segment and data
structure associated with it are destroyed after
the last detach.
.IP "\fB\-S\fI semkey\fR"
Removes the semaphore identifier, created with key \fIsemkey\fR,
from the system and destroys the set of semaphores and
data structure associated with it.
.SH See Also
ipcs(1), msgctl(2), msgget(2), msgop(2), semctl(2), semget(2), semop(2),
shmctl(2), shmget(2), shmop(2)
