.TH kits 1
.SH Name
kits \- generate setld format distribution kits
.SH Syntax
.B /usr/sys/dist/kits 
.I key-file
.I input-path
.I output-path
[
.I subset...
]
.SH Description
.NX R "setld" "format distribution kits"
.NX R "kits" "setld format distribution kits"
The
.PN kits
command produces subset images, inventories, and control files
for an installation using the
.PN setld
command. 
You need to know the key file which describes the product to be built,
a hierarchy from which the component files to be kitted are to
be taken, and a destination directory into which the kit information is to
be placed.
.PP
The
.PN kits
command produces a subset image and a .image file
in the
.I output-path
directory for each subset. In the
.I instctrl
subdirectory of
.I output-path,
.PN kits
produces an inventory file and a control file. Any subset
control program for the subset is transferred to
.I output-path/instctrl.
An
.I instctrl
directory is created if none existed.
.SH Arguments
.TP 15
.I key-file
The path name of the manufacturing key file which describes the
product to be kitted. Unless optional
.I subset
arguments are specified, all subsets listed in the descriptor
section of the
.I key-file
are kitted.
.TP
.I input-path
The path name which specifies the top of a hierarchy of files. This
hierarchy contains the files which are to be kitted into subsets.
.TP
.I output-path
The name of the directory to be used to store the subset image and
data files produced by the command.
.TP
.I subset...
The names of individual subsets can be specified by optionally listing them
on the command line. If they are specified,
only those subsets will be kitted. The
.PN kits
program assumes that all other subsets for the product have been kitted
and that their images are in the directory specified by
.I output-path.
The key file specified must contain descriptors for each of the
optional named subsets.
.SH Restrictions
Any subset control programs to be provided with the kit must be located
in a directory
.I scps
in the working directory where the
.PN kits
program is invoked. If no subset control program is found for a subset,
an empty one is created.
.SH Examples
The following example shows the command used to produce a kit using
key file
.I ULT400.k
in the current directory
to package files from the hierarchy
.I /var/kits/input
and place the results in
.I /var/kits/output.
.EX
    kits ULT400.k /var/kits/input /var/kits/output
.EE
The next example shows the same usage, but specifies that only the
ULTACCT400 subset is to be created.
.EX
    kits ULT400.k /var/kits/input /var/kits/output ULTACCT400
.EE
.SH Diagnostics
.B kits: 
.I key-file
.B not found
.br
The
.PN kits
program was unable to find the
.I key-file
specified on the command line.
.PP
.B kits: 
.I input-path
.B not found
.br
The
.PN kits
program was unable to find the specified
.I input-path.
.PP
.B kits: 
.I output-path
.B not found
.br
The
.PN kits
program was unable to find the  specified
.I output-path.
.PP
.B kits: cannot create instctrl directory.
.br
The
.PN kits
program cannot create an instctrl directory under
.I output-path.
Check that the user has write permission to
.I output-path.
.PP
.B kits: 
.I key-file
.B format error
.br
One of the NAME, CODE, VERS, MI or ROOT values in the specified
.I key-file
is either missing or has a null value.
.PP
.B Inventory file
.I pathname
.B not found
.br
The master inventory file
.I pathname
specified in the MI entry of the
.I key-file
cannot be found. Verify that the
.I pathname
is accessible from the current directory.
.PP
.B "Generating media creation information...failed."
.br
There are no records in the master
inventory file for a subset which is being kitted.
Check the master inventory file for correctness of content
and format.
.PP
.B No such subset in
.I key-file
.B subset
.I subset
.br
A subset name specified on the command line does not have
a descriptor line in the
.I key-file.
Check the spelling of the subset name on the command line.
Check the contents of the
.I key-file.
.PP
.B "compression failed. status ="
.I status
.br
The compression option was specified in the
.I key-file
and an attempt to compress a subset failed. This
should not happen. Run the
.PN kits
program once more.
.SH Files
.TP 15
.PN ts.subset*
temporary files.
.TP
.PN stderr
log of subset packaging activity
.SH See Also
invcutter(1), tarsets(1), stl_comp(5), stl_ctrl(5), stl_image(5),
stl_key(5), stl_mi(5), stl_scp(5), setld(8)
.br
\fIGuide to Preparing Software for Distribution on ULTRIX Systems\fP
