.TH lb_admin 1ncs
.\".if '\nv'1' .TH LB_ADMIN 1 domain
.\".if '\nv'4' .TH LB_ADMIN 8 domain
.\".if '\nv'5' .TH LB_ADMIN 1M domain
.\".if !\nh \{
.SH Name
lb_admin \- Location Broker Administrative Tool
.SH Syntax
\fB/etc/ncs/lb_admin\fR [ \fB\-version\fR ] [ \fB\-nq\fR]
.SH Description
The 
.PN lb_admin
tool monitors and administers the registrations of DECrpc-based servers in
Global Local Broker (GLB) or Local Location Broker (LLB) databases.  A
.NXR "Location Broker" "lb_admin"
server registers Universal Unique Identifiers (UUIDs) specifying an
object, a type, and an interface, along with a socket address specifying
its location.  A client can locate servers by issuing lookup requests to
GLBs and LLBs.  
.PP
In accepting input or displaying output, 
.PN lb_admin
uses either character strings or descriptive textual names to identify
objects, types, and interfaces.  A character string directly represents
the data in a UUID in the following format:
.sp .5
\fInnnnnnnnnnnn.nn.nn.nn.nn.nn.nn.nn.nn\fR
.sp .5
where each \fIn\fR is a hexadecimal digit.
.PP
With
.PN lb_admin ,
you examine or modify only one database at a time, referred to as
the current database.  The    
.PN use_broker
command selects the type of Location Broker database, GLB or LLB.  The
.PN set_broker
command selects the host whose LLB database is to be
accessed.
.PP       
Information about individual command interfaces is available through the
.PN help
command.
.SH Options
.TP 20 
\fB\-nq\fR
Do not query for verification of wildcard expansions
in
.PN unregister
operations.
.TP 20
\fB\-version\fR
Display the version of the Network Computing Kernel (NCK) that this
.PN lb_admin
belongs to, but do not start the tool.  (NCK is part of the Network
Computing System (NCS) on which DECrpc is based.)
.SH Commands
In the descriptions of
.PN lookup ,
.PN register ,
and
.PN unregister ,
the \fIobject\fR, \fItype\fR, and \fIinterface\fR
arguments can be either character strings representing UUIDs or textual
names corresponding to UUIDs, as described earlier.
.PP
In the descriptions of
.PN register
and
.PN unregister ,
the \fIlocation\fR argument is a string in the format
\fIfamily:host[port]\fR, where \fIfamily\fR is an address family,
\fIhost\fR is a host name, and \fIport\fR is a port number.  The only 
value for \fIfamily\fR is \fBip\fR.  You can use a
leading number sign (#) to indicate that a host name is in the standard
numeric form.  For example, \fBip:vienna[1756]\fR, and
\fBip:#192.5.5.5[1791]\fR are both acceptable \fIlocation\fR specifiers.
.TP 1i
.PN a[dd]
Synonym for
.PN register .
.TP 
.PN c[lean]
Find and delete obsolete entries in the current database.
.IP 
When you issue the
.PN clean
command, 
.PN lb_admin
attempts to contact each server registered in the database.  If the
server does not respond, 
.PN lb_admin
tries to look up its registration in the LLB database at
the host where the server is located, tells you the result of this
lookup, and asks whether you want to delete the entry.  If a server
responds, but its UUIDs do not match the entry in the database, 
.PN lb_admin
tells you this result and asks whether you want to delete
the entry, even if you used the \fB-nq\fR option to
.PN lb_admin .
.IP
There are two situations in which it is likely that a database entry
should be deleted:
.RS
.IP \(bu
The server does not respond, 
.PN lb_admin
succeeds in contacting the LLB at the host where the server is located,
and the server is not registered with that LLB.  The server is probably
no longer running.
.IP \(bu
A server responds, but its UUIDs do not match the entry in the
database.  The server that responded is not the one that registered the
entry.
.RE
.IP 
Entries that meet either of these conditions are probably safe to delete
and are considered eligible for automatic deletion (described in the
next paragraph).  In other situations, it is best not to delete the
entry unless you can verify directly that the server is not running (for
example, by listing the processes running on its host).
.IP
When the 
.PN clean
command asks whether you want to delete an entry, choose one of the
following responses: 
.RS
.TP .5i
\fBy[es]\fR 
Delete the entry. 
.TP .5i
\fBn[o]\fR 
Leave the entry intact in the current database. 
.TP .5i
\fBg[o]\fR 
Invoke automatic deletion, in which all eligible
entries (see the previous paragraph) are deleted and all ineligible entries are
left intact, without your being queried, until all entries have been checked. 
.TP .5i
\fBq[uit]\fR 
Terminate the
.PN clean
operation.
.RE
.TP
.PN d[elete]
Synonym for
.PN unregister .
.TP
.PN h[elp]\0[\fIcommand\fR]\0or\0?\0[\fIcommand\fR]
.IP
\fRDisplay a description of the specified \fIcommand\fR or, if none is
specified, list all of the 
.PN lb_admin
commands.
.TP
.PN l[ookup]\0\fIobject\0type\0interface\fR
.IP
Look up and display all entries with matching \fIobject, type,\fR and
\fIinterface\fR fields in the current database.   Use the letter \fBl\fR to
list all of the entries in the database.  You can use asterisks as
wildcards for any of the arguments.  If all the arguments are wildcards,
or if no arguments are given,
.PN lookup
displays the entire database.
.TP
.PN q[uit]
Exit the  
.PN lb_admin 
session.
.TP
.PN r[egister]\0\fIobject\0type\0interface\0location\0annotation\0[flag]\fR
.IP
Add the specified entry to the current database.  You can use an
asterisk to represent the nil UUID in the \fIobject, type\fR, and
\fIinterface\fR fields.
.IP
The \fIannotation\fR is a string of up to 64 characters annotating the
entry.  Use double quotation marks (" ") to delimit a string that
contains a space or contains no characters.  To embed a double quotation
mark in the string, precede it with a backslash (\\). 
.IP
The \fIflag\fR is either local (the default) or global,
indicating whether the entry should be marked for local registration
only or for registration in both the LLB and the GLB databases.  The
\fIflag\fR is a field that is stored with the entry; it does not affect
where the entry is registered.  The 
.PN set_broker 
and
.PN use_broker
commands select the particular LLB or GLB database for registration.
.TP
.PN set_broker\0[\fIbroker_switch\fR]\0\fIlocation\fR
\fRSet the host for the current LLB or GLB.  If you specify global as
the \fIbroker_switch\fR,
.PN set_broker
sets the current GLB; otherwise, it sets the current LLB.  The
\fIhost\fR is a \fIlocation\fR specifier as described earlier, but the
\fI[port]\fR portion is ignored and can be omitted.
.IP
Issue the 
.PN use_broker 
command, not the
.PN set_broker
command, to determine whether subsequent operations will access
the LLB or the GLB.
.TP 
.PN set_t[imeout]\0\fI[short\0|\0long]\fR
\fRSet the timeout period used by
.PN lb_admin
for all of its operations.  With an argument of \fIshort\fR or
\fIlong\fR,
.PN set_timeout
sets the timeout accordingly.  With no argument, it displays the
current timeout value.
.TP
.PN u[nregister]\0\fIobject\0type\0interface\0location\fR
.IP
Delete the specified entry from the current database.
.IP
You can use an asterisk as a wildcard in the \fIobject, type,\fR and
\fIinterface\fR fields to match any value for the field.  Unless you
suppress queries by specifying the \fB-nq\fR option of
.PN lb_admin, 
.PN unregister
asks you whether to delete each matching entry.  Choose one of the following
responses:
.RS
.TP .5i 
\fBy[es]\fR
Delete the entry. 
.TP .5i 
\fBn[o]\fR
Leave the entry in the database. 
.TP .5i 
\fBg[o]\fR
Delete all remaining database entries that match, without your being queried. 
.TP .5i 
\fBq[uit]\fR
Terminate the
.PN unregister
operation, without deleting any more entries.
.RE
.TP
.PN us[e_broker]\0\fI[broker_switch]\fR
.IP
Select the type of database that subsequent operations will access, GLB
or LLB.  The \fIbroker_switch\fR is either global or local.
If you do not supply a \fIbroker_switch\fR, 
.PN use_broker
tells whether the current database is global or local.
.IP
Use 
.PN set_broker
to select the host whose GLB or LLB is to be accessed.
.\".PP  
.\"The Domain/Dialogue menus display object, type, and interface UUIDs
.\"when that operand is chosen via the switch at the top of the menu.
.\"The UUIDs displayed are those belonging to the entries of the broker
.\"selected in the top line when the update operation is performed.
.\"When an item is selected from a menu, the UUID appears in the
.\"Entry Information form and the next menu in the object, type, interface trio is displayed. 
.\".PP
.\"The asterisk (*) acts as a wildcard for the \fBlookup\fR and \fBunregister\fR operations. 
.\"For the unregister operation, the user will be queried for each matching entry
.\"when the wildcard is specified for an object, type or interface.
.\"A "y[es]" response will delete the entry;
.\"a "n[o]" response will leave the entry in the database;
.\"a "q[uit]" response will return the user
.\"from the unregister operation and no further entries will be deleted;
.\"a "g[o]" response will delete all the matching database entries;
.\"any other response will act as a "n[o]" response.
.\"Querying can be suppressed
.\"by supplying a \fB\-nq\fR flag to the lb_admin command line.
.SH See Also
llbd(8ncs), nrglbd(8ncs)
.\".if '\nv'4' drm_admin(8), glbd(8), llbd(8)
.\".if '\nv'5' drm_admin(1m), glbd(1m), llbd(1m)
.\".if '\*(pR'ncs' drm_admin, glbd, llbd
.br
\fIGuide to the Location Broker\fP
.\".DD "lb_admin.8 
.\"lb_admin  Location Broker Administrative Tool
