.TH login 1
.SH Name
login \- log in to a system
.SH Syntax
.B login
[\|\fIusername\fR\|]
.SH Description
.NXR "login command (general)"
.NXR "logging in"
.NXA "logging in" "password"
The
.PN login
command
is used when a user initially
signs on, or it may be used at any time to change
from one user to another.
The latter case is the one summarized above and
described here.
To sign on initially,
see the 
\fIGuide to System Environment Setup\fP.
.PP
If
.PN login
is invoked without an argument,
it asks for a user name, and, if
appropriate, a password.
Echoing is turned off (if possible) during the typing of the password,
so it does not appear on the written record of the
session.
.PP
After a successful login
accounting files are updated,
the user is informed of the
existence of mail,
the message of the day is printed, and
the time of last successful login is displayed.
The display of all this information can be prevented by creating
the file
.I \&.hushlogin
in the accounts login directory. This is useful for accounts such as
.I uucp.
.PP
If ULTRIX security features are enabled additional things may happen.
These include the display of the number of failed login attempts since
the last successful login and forcing the setting of a new password.
See the 
\fISecurity Guide for Users\fP and \fISecurity Guide for Administrators\fP for more
information.
.PP
The
.PN login
command
initializes the user and group IDs, the working directory,
and the users audit information,
then executes a command interpreter, usually 
.MS sh 1 ,
according to specifications found in a password file.
Argument 0 of the command interpreter is \*(lq\-sh\*(rq, or
more generally the name of the command interpreter with
a leading dash (\*(lq\-\*(rq) prepended.
.PP
The 
.PN login 
command also initializes the
environment 
.MS environ 7
with information specifying home directory,
command interpreter, terminal
type (if available) and user name.
.PP
When
.PN login
is used in conjunction with
.MS getty 8
it is the responsibility of the getty program to initialize the
terminal attributes.  Specifically if a terminal is setup to 
use 8-bit characters the 
.PN getty
program should use a 
.MS gettytab 5 
entry which specifies 8-bit characters.  If a terminal is setup in
8-bit mode but fails to specify an 8-bit gettytab entry, then
characters output by both 
.PN login
and
.PN getty
may appear as multinational characters.  
.PP
If the file 
.PN /etc/nologin
exists,
.PN login
prints its contents on the user's terminal and exits. This is
used by 
.MS shutdown 8
to stop users logging in when the system is about to go down.
.PP
The
.PN login 
command is recognized by 
.MS sh 1 
and 
.MS csh 1
and executed directly (without forking).
.PP
If a root login is attempted and an invalid command
interpreter is specified, the 
.PN sh
interpreter is used.
.SH Options
.IP \fB\-r\fR 20
Used by the remote login server, 
.MS rlogind 8c ,
to force
.PN login
to enter into an initial connection protocol.
.IP "\fB\-P \fI<programname>\fR" 20
Causes
.PN login
to set it's standard input
and output to be connected to the prompting program \fI<programname>\fR.
.IP "\fB\-C \fIstring\fR" 20
Allows the system to specify a command to be run using the
user's shell.  This option causes a user shell
.B \-c
\fIstring\fR to be 
.PN exec 'ed.
.IP \fB\-e\fR 20
Forces
.PN login
to use an extended protocol when communicating with a prompter
program (see \-P).
.SH Restrictions
To provide flow control, CTRL/S and
CTRL/Q are ignored and are
therefore invalid characters in a 
login name.  
.SH Diagnostics
.NXR "login command (general)" "diagnostics"
.PP
.B "Login incorrect"
.br
If the username and password are not a valid combination.
.PP
.B "Too many users logged on already. Try again later."
.br
The system has the maximum licensed number of users logged on already.
.PP
.B "License not valid for this version of ULTRIX."
.br
The PAK that has been registered is for an earlier version of ULTRIX.
.PP
.B "No valid license found for ULTRIX."
.br
There is either no ULTRIX PAK registered or the PAK that has
been found is not valid, possibly because it has terminated.
.PP
.B "Requires secure terminal"
.br
An attempt was made to login as UID 0 on a line that is not marked
as \fIsecure\fP in
.PN /etc/ttys .
.PP
.B "No shell"
.br
The login shell specified for the account cannot be executed. Consult
the system administrator.
.PP
.B "No directory! Logging in with home=/"
.br
The HOME directory for the account is inaccessible. This can happen
if the directory resides on an NFS file system served by a host that
is not currently available.
.PP
.B "You have too many processes running"
.br
Completion of login would exceed the maximum number of running processes
allowed for the user.
.PP
.B "You have mail"
.br
You have a non-empty mail spool file.
.PP
If ULTRIX security features are enabled the following messages are
also possible from login:
.PP
.PP
.B "Your password has expired"
.br
The password for your account has not been changed recently enough.
Consult your system administrator.
.PP
.B "Your password has expired, please change it"
.br
Your password has expired recently. You have to change it
before you can proceed any further.
.PP
.B "Your password will expire very soon"
.br
Your password will expire in less than 24 hours.
.PP
.B "Your password will expire in %d days"
.br
The ``%d'' is replaced with the number of days until your
password expires. You should consider changing your password now.
.PP
.B "This account is disabled"
.br
Consult your system administrator.
.PP
.B "Kerberos initialization failure"
.br
Consult your system administrator.
.SH Files
.PD 0
.TP 20
.PN /etc/utmp
accounting
.TP
.PN /usr/adm/wtmp
accounting
.TP
.PN /usr/spool/mail/*
mail
.TP
.PN /etc/motd
message-of-the-day
.TP
.PN /etc/auth.[pag,dir]
authorization data base
.TP
.PN /etc/passwd
password file
.TP
.PN /etc/nologin
stops logins
.TP
.PN /etc/svc.conf
sets I&A security level
.TP
.PN \&.hushlogin
makes login quieter
.TP
.PN /etc/securetty
lists ttys that root may log in on
.SH See Also
mail(1), passwd(1), yppasswd(1yp), passwd(5yp), environ(7),
getty(8), init(8), rlogind(8c), shutdown(8)
.br
\fIGuide to System Environment Setup\fP
.br
\fISecurity Guide for Users\fP
.br
\fISecurity Guide for Administrators\fP
