.\" SCCSID: @(#)lookbib.1	8.1	9/11/90
.TH lookbib 1
.SH Name
indxbib, lookbib \- build inverted index for a bibliography, lookup bibliographic
references
.SH Syntax
.B indxbib
\fIdatabase...\fR
.br
.B lookbib
\fIdatabase\fR
.SH Description
.NXR "lookbib command"
.NXR "indxbib command"
.NXA "refer preprocessor" "indxbib command"
.NXA "refer preprocessor" "lookbib command"
.NXR "bibliography" "indexing"
.NXR "bibliography" "finding references"
The
.PN indxbib
makes an inverted index to the named
.I databases
(or files) for use by
.MS lookbib 1
and
.MS refer 1 .
These files contain bibliographic references
(or other kinds of information) separated by blank lines.
.PP
A bibliographic reference is a set of lines,
constituting fields of bibliographic information.
Each field starts on a line beginning with a ``%'',
followed by a key-letter, then a blank,
and finally the contents of the field,
which may continue until the next line starting with ``%''.
.PP
The
.PN indxbib 
command is a shell script that calls
.PN /usr/lib/refer/mkey
and
.PN /usr/lib/refer/inv .
The first program,
.PN mkey ,
truncates words to 6 characters,
and maps upper case to lower case.
It also discards words shorter than 3 characters,
words among the 100 most common English words,
and numbers (dates) < 1900 or > 2000.
These parameters can be changed. 
The second program,
.I inv,
creates an entry file (.ia),
a posting file (.ib), and a tag file (.ic),
all in the working directory.
.PP
The
.PN lookbib
command uses an inverted index made by
.PN indxbib
to find sets of bibliographic references.
It reads keywords typed after the ``>'' prompt on the terminal,
and retrieves records containing all these keywords.
If nothing matches, nothing is returned except another ``>'' prompt.
.PP
It is possible to search multiple databases,
as long as they have a common index made by
.PN indxbib .
In that case, only the first argument given to
.PN indxbib
is specified to
.PN lookbib .
.PP
If
.PN lookbib
does not find the index files (the .i[abc] files),
it looks for a reference file with the same name as the argument,
without the suffixes.
It creates a file with a '.ig' suffix, suitable for use with
.PN fgrep .
It then uses this fgrep file to find references.
This method is simpler to use, but the .ig file is slower to use
than the .i[abc] files,
and does not allow the use of multiple reference files.
.SH Files
.IR x \&.ia,
.IR x \&.ib,
.IR x \&.ic,
where 
.I x
is the first argument, or if these are not present, then
.IR x \&.ig,
.IR x
.SH See Also
addbib(1), lookbib(1), refer(1), roffbib(1), sortbib(1),
