.TH lpq 1
.SH Name
lpq \- spool queue examination program
.SH Syntax 
.B lpq
[
.I options
] [
.I job
.I #... 
] [
.I user...
]
.SH Description
.NXR "lpq command"
.NXAM "daemon" "lpd daemon" "lpq command"
.NXA "printer" "printer queue"
.NXR "printer queue" "displaying"
The
.PN lpq
command examines the spooling area used by 
.PN lpd
for printing files on the printer,
and reports the status of jobs.
The
.PN lpq
command invoked without any arguments
reports on any jobs currently in the default queue.
.PP
When jobs are being printed,
.PN lpq
reports the queue as being ``active''.
For each job submitted,
.PN lpq
reports the user's name, current rank in the queue, the
names of files comprising the job, the job identifier
and the total size in bytes.
The job identifier is a number which may be supplied to
.PN lprm
to remove a specific job.
.PP
Job ordering is determined by the FIFO (First In, First Out)
algorithm used to scan the spooling directory.
When the queue is empty,
.PN lpq
reports that there are ``no entries''.
.PP
File names may be unavailable for some jobs, for example, if the
.PN lpr
command is used without specifying a file name, or if
.PN lpr
is used in a pipe line.
If file names are unavailable, the file name reported by
.PN lpq
is ``standard input''.
.SH Arguments
.TP 12
.I job #...
Causes
.PN lpq
to report on only the job number(s) specified.
.TP
.I user...
Causes
.PN lpq
to report on only the jobs for the specified user(s).
.SH Options
.IP \fB+\fIn\fR 5
Scan and display the spool queue until the queue is empty.
The queue is scanned every \fIn\fR seconds, if no argument is specified the
queue is scanned every 30 seconds.
.IP \fB\-l\fR 
Display the status of each job on more than one line if necessary.
If this option is not used, the status of each job is displayed on one
line.
.IP \fB\-P\fIprinter\fR
Report the status of the spool queue for the \fIprinter\fR specified.
If this option is not used, the spool queue displayed is the one defined by
the PRINTER environment variable.
If a queue is not defined by the PRINTER environment variable, the spool
queue displayed is for the printer named ``lp'' in the
.PN printcap
file.
.SH Restrictions
The displayed status of the spool queue may not always be the current
status.
This is because jobs may be completed after the queue has been examined,
but before the status has been displayed.
.SH Error Messages
Two of the most common error messages from
.PN lpq
are:
.br
.sp
.B
Warning: no daemon present
.R
.br
A daemon is not available for the specified printer.
Refer to the
.PN lpc(8)
command to find out how to restart the printer daemon.
.br
.sp
.B
unknown printer
.R
.br
The printer specified as an argument to the \fB\-P\fR
option, doesn't have an entry in the
.PN /etc/printcap
file.
.SH Files
.TP 25
.PN /etc/termcap
For manipulating the screen for repeated display
.TP
.PN /etc/printcap
To determine printer characteristics
.TP
.PN /usr/spool/*
The spooling directory, as determined from printcap
.TP
.PN /usr/spool/*/cf*
Control files specifying jobs
.TP
.PN /usr/spool/*/lock
The lock file to obtain the currently active job 
.SH See Also
lpr(1), lprm(1), lpc(8), lpd(8)
