.TH ls 1
.SH Name
ls \- list and generate statistics for files
.SH Syntax
.B ls 
[
.I options
]
.I name ... 
.SH Description
.NXR "ls command (general)"
.NXR "directory" "listing"
.NXR "file" "listing information"
For each directory argument,
.PN ls
lists the contents of the directory.  For each file
argument,
.PN ls
repeats the file name and gives any other information you
request with the options available.  By default, the list
is sorted alphabetically.
When no argument is given, the current directory is listed.
When several arguments
are given, files are listed first,
followed by directories and the files
within each directory.
Options are listed below.
.SH Options
.NXR "ls command (general)" "options"
.IP \-1 5
Displays one entry per line.  This is the
default when output is not to a terminal.
.IP \-a 
Displays all entries including those beginning with a period (.).
.IP \-C 
Forces multicolumn output for pipe or filter.  This is the default when the output
is to a terminal.
.IP \-c 
Uses time of last file status change (ctime), reflecting file
creation, mode, etc., for sorting (with the 
.B \-t 
option) or
printing (with the 
.B \-l 
option) rather than the time of file
modification or access. See also the 
.B \-t 
and 
.B \-u 
options.
.IP \-d 
Displays names of directories only, not contents.  
Use this option
with \fB\-l\fR to get the status of
a directory.
.IP \-F 
Marks directories with trailing slash (/), sockets
with a trailing equal sign (=), symbolic links with a trailing 
at sign (@),
and executable files with a trailing asterisk (*).  
.IP \-f 
Displays names in the order they exist in directory.  
For further information, see 
.MS dir 5 .
Entries beginning
with a period (.) are also listed.  This option overrides the
\fB\-l, \-t, \-s,\fR and \fB\-r\fR options.
.IP \-g 
Displays assigned group ID (used with 
.B \-l
only).  Default is assigned owner ID.
.IP \-i 
Displays the i-number for each file in the first column
of the report.
.IP \-L 
Lists the information, if the file is a symbolic link, for
the file or directory the link references rather than that
for the link itself.
.IP \-l 
Lists the mode, number of links, owner,
size in bytes, and time of last modification (mtime) for each file.
If the file is a special file, the size field 
contains the major and minor device numbers instead of the size.
If the file is
a symbolic link, the pathname of the linked-to file is printed,
preceded by ``\->''.
.IP
The mode field consists of 11 characters.  The first
character indicates the type of entry:
.IP
\fBd\fR if the entry is a directory
.br
\fBb\fR if the entry is a block-type special file
.br
\fBc\fR if the entry is a character-type special file
.br
\fBl\fR if the entry is a symbolic link
.br
\fBs\fR if the entry is a socket
.br
\fB\-\fR if the entry is a plain file
.IP
The next 9 characters are interpreted as three sets of
three characters each.  The first set of three characters
refers to file-access permissions for the user; the next
set, for the user-group; and the last set, for all others.
The permissions are indicated as follows:
.IP
\fBr\fR if the file is readable
.br
\fBw\fR if the file is writable
.br
\fBx\fR if the file is executable
.br
\fB\-\fR if the indicated permission is not granted.
.IP
The group-execute permission character is given as \fBs\fR
if the file has the set-group-id bit set; likewise, the
user-execute permission character is given as \fBs\fR if the
file has the set-user-id bit set.
.IP
The last character of the mode (normally `x' or `\-') is
\fBt\fR if the 1000 bit of the mode is on.  See
.MS chmod 2
for the meaning of this mode.
.IP \-q 
Forces the printing of nongraphic characters in file names as the
question mark character (?).
This is the default when output is to a
terminal.
.IP \-R 
Recursively lists all subdirectories.  
.IP \-r 
Sorts entries in reverse alphabetic or time order.  
.IP \-s 
Displays the size in kilobytes of each file.
This is the first item listed in each entry.
.IP \-t 
Sorts by time modified (most recently modified first) instead of
by name. See also the 
.B \-c 
and 
.B \-u 
options.
.IP \-u 
Uses the time of last access (atime) instead of last modification for
sorting (with the \fB\-t\fR option) or printing
(with the \fB\-l\fR option).
.SH Restrictions
.NXR "ls command (general)" "restricted"
The output device is assumed to be 80 columns wide.
.PP
New line and tab are considered printing characters in file names.
.PP
The option setting based on whether the output is a teletype
is undesirable as "ls \-s" is much different than "ls \-s |lpr".
On the other hand, not doing this setting would make old shell
scripts which used
.B ls
almost certain to fail.
.SH Files
.TP 15
.PN /etc/passwd
Used to obtain user id's for \fBls \-l\fR
.TP 15
.PN /etc/group
Used to obtain group id's for \fBls \-g\fR
.SH See Also
stat(2)
