.TH mail 1
.SH Name
mail \- send or read mail
.SH Syntax
.B mail
[\fB\-v\fR] [\fB\-i\fR] [\fB\-n\fR] [\fB\-e\fR] [\fB\-s\fI subject\fR\|] [\|\fIuser...\fR]
.br
.B mail
[\fB\-v\fR] [\fB\-i\fR] [\fB\-n\fR] \fB\-f\fR [\|\fIname\fR\|]
.br
.B mail
[\fB\-v\fR] [\fB\-i\fR] [\fB\-n\fR] \fB\-u\fI user\fR
.br
.B mail nodename::username (If DECnet is installed.)
.SH Description 
.NXR "mail program"
.NXR "mail" "sending"
.NXA "mail program" "write command"
.NXA "mail program" "talk program"
The
.PN mail
utility is an intelligent mail processing system 
which has
a command syntax similar to
.PN ed .
However, in 
.PN mail
lines are replaced by messages.
.PP
If DECnet is installed on your system, you can also send and receive
mail from other DECnet users.  See 
.MS mailaddr 7
for information on DECnet addressing.
.PP
.I "Sending mail.\ "
To send a message to one or more persons, 
type
.PN mail
and the names of the people
receiving your mail.  Press the RETURN
key.  
Note that if you use other arguments, the names of the recipients should
always be the last element on the command line.
For example,
.EX
mail \-v \-s "mail message" \fIusers\fP
.EE
If you do not specify a subject on the command line,
you are prompted for a subject.
After entering a subject, and pressing the 
RETURN key, type your message.
To send the message, type a period (\&.) or
CTRL D
at the beginning of a new line.
.PP
You can use tilde (\~) escape sequences to perform
special functions when composing mail messages.  See
the list of options for more on tilde escape sequences.
.PP
.I "Reading mail.\ "
.NXR "mail" "reading"
In normal usage
.PN mail
is given no arguments and checks your mail out of the
mail directory. Then it
prints out a one line header of each message there.
The current message is initially the first message and is 
numbered 1.  It
can be displayed using the
.PN print
. (p)
command.
.PP
The 
.PN \-e
option causes mail not to be printed.  Instead,
an exit value
is returned.  For the exit status, see RETURN VALUES.
.NXR "mail" "printing"
.NXR "print command (mail)"
You can move among the messages by
typing a plus sign (+) followed by a number to move forward
that many messages, or a minus sign (\-) followed by a number to
move backward that many messages.
.PP
.I "Disposing of mail.\ "
.NXR "mail" "deleting"
.NXR "mail" "undeleting"
After reading a message you can
delete (d)
it or reply (r)
to it.
Deleted messages can be undeleted,
however, in one of two ways:  you can use the undelete (u) command
and the number
of the message, or you can end the mail session with
the exit (x) command.
Note that if you end a session with the quit (q)
command, you cannot retrieve 
deleted messages.
.PP
.I "Specifying messages.\ "
.NXR "mail" "specifying messages"
Commands such as
.PN print
and
.PN delete
can be given a list of message numbers as arguments.
Thus, the command
.EX
delete 1 2 
.EE
deletes messages 1 and 2, while 
the command
.EX
delete 1\-5
.EE
deletes messages 1 through 5.
The asterisk (*) addresses all messages, and the 
dollar sign ($) addresses
the last message.  For example, the
.PN top
command, which prints the first few lines of a
message, can be used in the following manner
to print the first few lines of all messages:
.EX
top *
.EE
.PP
.I "Replying to or originating mail.\ "
.NXR "mail" "replying to"
Use the
.PN reply
command to
respond to a message.
.PP
.I "Ending a mail processing session.\ "
.NXR "mail" "ending a session"
End a
.PN mail
session with the
.PN quit
(q) command.
Unless they were deleted, messages that
you have read go to your
.I mbox
file.
Unread messages go back to the mail directory. 
The \-f option causes
.PN mail
to read in the contents of your
.I mbox
(or the specified file)
for processing.  When you
.PN quit ,
the mail utility
writes undeleted messages back to this file.
The \-u flag is a short way of specifying:
.PN mail 
.PN \-f
.PN /usr/spool/mail/user .
.PP
.I "Personal and systemwide distribution lists.\ "
.NXR "mail" "creating a distribution list"
You can create a personal distribution list that
directs mail to a group of people.
Such lists can be defined by placing a line 
similar to the following in the \&.mailrc file in 
your home directory:
.EX
alias cohorts bill ozalp jkf mark kridle@ucbcory
.EE
.PP
Cohorts is the name of the distribution list that
consists of the following users:
bill, ozalp, jkf, mark, and kridle@ucbcory.
A list of current aliases can be displayed with the
.PN alias
.PN (a)
command in
.PN mail .
.PP
System wide distribution lists can be created by editing
.PN /usr/lib/aliases .
The syntax of system wide lists differs
from that of personally defined aliases.
.PP
Personal aliases are expanded in mail you send.
When a recipient on a personally
defined mailing list uses the
.PN reply
.PN (r)
option, the entire mailing list receives the response
automatically.
System wide \fIaliases\fR are not expanded when the mail is sent,
but any reply returned to the machine will have the system-wide
alias expanded as all mail goes through
.PN sendmail .
.PP
Forwarding is also a form of aliasing.
A 
.PN \&.forward 
file can be set up in a user's home directory.
Mail for that user is then redirected to the list of addresses in
the 
.PN \&.forward 
file.
See
.MS aliases 5
and 
.MS sendmail 8 
for more information.
.PP
.I "Network mail (ARPA, UUCP, Berknet, DECnet)\ "
See 
.MS mailaddr 7
for a description of network addresses.
.SH Options
.NXR "mail program" "flags"
.TP
\fB\-e\fR
Causes
.PN mail
not to be printed.  Instead, an exit value
is returned.  
.TP
\fB\-f\fR
Causes 
.PN mail
to read in the contents of your
.I mbox
file (or another file you specify) for processing.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR
Causes tty interrupt signals to be ignored. This is
useful when using
.PN mail
on noisy phone lines.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR
Inhibits the reading of /usr/lib/Mail.rc.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR
Specifies a subject on the command line.
Note that only the first argument after the
\-s flag is used as a subject and that you must enclose subjects
containing spaces in quotes.
.TP
\fB\-u\fR
Specifies a short hand for expressing the following:
.EX
mail \-f /usr/spool/mail/user 
.EE
.TP
\fB\-v\fR
Prints the mail message.  The details of
delivery are displayed on the user's terminal.
.PP
The
following options can be set in the .mailrc
file to alter the behavior of the
.PN mail
command.
.NXR "mail program" "command list"
.PP
Each command is typed on a line by itself and may take arguments
following the command word and the command abbreviation. 
For commands that take message lists as arguments, if no message
list is given, then the next message forward which satisfies the
command's requirements is used.  If there are no messages forward of
the current message, the search proceeds backwards.  If there are no
good messages at all,
.PN mail
cancels the command,
displaying the message: No applicable messages.
.TP 12n
.B \-
Prints out the previous message. If given a numeric
argument
.IR n,
prints
.IR n \-th
previous message. 
.TP
.B ?
Prints a brief summary of commands.
.TP
.B !
Executes the \s-2ULTRIX\s0 shell command which follows.
.TP
\fBalias\fR (\fBa\fR)
.NXR "alias command (mail)"
Prints out all currently-defined aliases, if given
without arguments.  With one
argument, prints out that alias.  With more than one argument, creates
a new or changes an old alias.
These aliases are in effect for the current mail session only.
.TP
\fBalternates\fR (\fBalt\fR)
.NXR "alternates command (mail)"
Informs
.PN mail
that you have several valid addresses.
The
.PN alternates
command is useful if you have accounts on more than one machine.
When you
.PN reply
to messages,
.PN mail
does not send a copy of the message to any of the addresses
listed on the
.I alternates
list.  If the
.PN alternates
command is given with no argument, the current set of alternate
names is displayed.
.TP
\fBchdir\fR (\fBch\fR)
.NXR "chdir command (mail)"
Changes the user's working directory to that specified.
If no directory is given, then the
.PN chdir
command changes to the user's login directory.
.TP
\fBcopy\fR (\fBco\fR)
.NXR "copy command (mail)"
Takes a message list and file name and appends each message
to the end of the file.  The
.PN copy
command functions in the same way as the
.PN save 
command, except that it does not mark the messages that you
copy for deletion when you quit.
.TP
\fBdelete\fR (\fBd\fR)
.NXR "delete command (mail)"
Takes a list of messages as argument and marks them all as deleted.
Deleted messages are not saved in
.IR mbox ,
nor are they available for most other commands.  
.TP
\fBdp\fR (or \fBdt\fR)
.NXR "dp command (mail)"
Deletes the current message and prints the next message.
If there is no next message, 
.PN mail
returns a message:  at EOF.
.TP
\fBedit\fR (\fBe\fR)
.NXR "edit command (mail)"
Takes a list of messages and points the text editor at each one in
turn.  On return from the editor, the message is read back in.
.TP
\fBexit\fR (\fBex\fR or \fBx\fR)
.NXR "exit command (mail)"
Returns to the Shell without
modifying the user's system mailbox,
.I mbox
file, or edit file in
.PN \-f .
.TP
\fBfile\fR (\fBfi\fR)
.NXR "file command (mail)"
Switches to a new mail file or folder.  If no
arguments are given, it tells you which file you are currently reading.
If you give it an argument, it writes out changes (such
as deletions) you have made in the current file and reads in
the new file. Some special conventions are recognized for
the name. A pound sign (#) indicates the previous file, 
a percent sign (%) indicates your systemb
mailbox, %user indicates the user's system mailbox, an
ampersand (&) indicates
your \~/mbox file, and +folder indicates a file in your folder
directory.
.TP
.B folders
.NXR "folders command (mail)"
List the names of the folders in your folder directory.
.TP
\fBfolder\fR (\fBfo\fR)
.NXR "folder command (mail)"
Switches to a new mail file or folder. The 
.PN folder
command functions in the same way as the 
.PN file 
command.
.TP
\fBfrom\fR (\fBf\fR)
.NXR "from command (mail)"
.NXA "type command (mail)" "print command (mail)"
.NXA "copy command (mail)" "save command (mail)"
.NXA "file command (mail)" "folder command (mail)"
Takes a list of messages and prints their message headers
in the order that they appear in the mail directory, not in the
order given in the list.
.TP
\fBheaders\fR (\fBh\fR)
.NXR "headers command (mail)"
Lists the current range of headers, which is a 20 message group.  If
a plus sign (+) is given as an argument, then the next
message group is printed.  If
a minus sign (\-) is given as an argument, the previous
message group is printed.
.TP
.B help
.NXR "help command (mail)"
Prints a brief summary of commands.  Synonymous with ?.
.TP
\fBhold\fR (\fBho\fR, also \fBpreserve\fR)
.NXR "hold command (mail)"
Takes a message list and marks each
message in it to be saved in the
user's system mailbox instead of in
.IR mbox.
The 
.PN hold
command does not override the
.B delete
command.
.TP
.B ignore
.NXR "ignore command (mail)"
Adds the list of header fields named to the
.IR "ignored list" .
Header fields in the ignore list are not printed
on your terminal when you print a message. This
command is frequently used to suppress certain machine-generated
header fields. The
.PN type
and
.PN print
commands are used to print a message in its entirety, including
ignored fields. If
.PN ignore
is executed with no arguments, it lists the current set of
ignored fields.
.TP
\fBmail\fR (\fBm\fR)
.NXR "mail command (mail)"
Takes login names and distribution group names
as arguments and sends
mail to those people.
.TP
\fBmbox\fR
Indicates that a list of messages should be sent to 
.I mbox
in your home directory when you quit. This is the default
action for messages if you did
.I not
set the
.I hold
option. 
.TP
\fBnext\fR (\fBn\fR, \fB+\fR or CR)
.NXR "next command (mail)"
 Goes to the next message in
sequence and types it.
With an argument list, it types the next matching message.
.TP
\fBpreserve\fR (\fBpre\fR)
.NXR "preserve command (mail)"
Takes a message list and marks each message in it to be
saved in the user's system mailbox instead of in
.I mbox .
Synonymous with the
.PN hold 
command.
.TP
\fBprint\fR (\fBp\fR)
.NXR "print command (mail)"
Takes a message list and types out each message on the user's terminal,
without printing any specified ignored fields.
.TP
\fBPrint\fR (\fBP\fR)
.NXR "print command (mail)"
.NXA "print command (mail)" "print command (mail)"
.NXA "print command (mail)" "ignore command (mail)"
Prints a message in its entirety, including specified ignored fields.
.TP
\fBquit\fR (\fBq\fR)
.NXR "quit command (mail)"
Terminates the session.  All undeleted, unsaved messages 
are saved in the
user's
.I mbox
file in his login directory; all messages marked with
.PN hold
or
.PN preserve
or that were never referenced are saved
in his system mailbox; and all other messages are removed from his system
mailbox.  If new mail arrives during the session, the user
receives the message:
You have new mail.  If given while editing a
mailbox file with the
.PN \-f
flag, then the edit file is rewritten.  A return to the Shell is
effected, unless the rewrite of the edit file fails, in which case the user
can escape with the
.PN exit
command.
.TP
\fBreply\fR (\fBr\fR)
.NXR "reply command (mail)"
Takes a message list and sends mail to the sender and all
recipients of the specified message.
The default message must not be deleted.
.TP
\fBReply\fR (\fBR\fR)
.NXR "reply command (mail)"
Replies to originator of the message. Does not reply to other
recipients of the original message.
.TP
.B respond
.NXR "respond command (mail)"
Takes a message list and sends mail to the sender and all
recipients of the specified message.  Synonymous with
.PN reply .
.TP
\fBsave\fR (\fBs\fR)
.NXR "save command (mail)"
.NXA "preserve command (mail)" "hold command (mail)"
.NXA "respond command (mail)" "reply command (mail)"
Takes a message list and a file name and appends each message 
to the end of the file. 
The messages are saved in the order in which they appear in the
mail directory, not in the order given in the message list.
The filename, which is enclosed in quotes, followed by the line
count and character count, is displayed on the user's terminal.  
.TP
\fBset\fR (\fBse\fR)
.NXR "set command (mail)"
Prints all variable values when no arguments
are given.  Otherwise, the
.PN set 
command sets the specified
option.  Arguments either take the form
.EX
option=value
.EE
or
.EX
option
.EE
.TP
\fBshell\fR (\fBsh\fR)
.NXR "shell command (mail)"
Invokes an interactive version of the shell.
.TP
.B size
.NXR "size command (mail)"
Takes a message list and prints out the size (in characters) of each
message.
The size of the messages are printed in the order that they
appear in the mail directory, not in the order given in the list.
.TP
\fBsource\fR (\fBso\fR)
.NXR "source command (mail)"
Reads
.PN mail
commands from a file.
.TP
.B top
.NXR "top command (mail)"
Takes a message list and prints the top few lines of each.  The number of
lines printed is controlled by the variable
.PN toplines
and defaults to five.
.TP
\fBtype\fR (\fBt\fR)
.NXR "type command (mail)" 
Takes a message list and types out each message on the
user's terminal, without printing any specified ignored fields.
Synonymous with
.PN print .
.TP
\fBtype\fR (\fBT\fR)
.NXR "type command (mail)"
Prints a message in its entirety, including
specified ignored fields.  Synonymous with
.PN print .
.TP
.B unalias
.NXR "unalias command (mail)"
Takes a list of names defined by
.PN alias
commands and cancels the list of users.  The group names
no longer have any significance.
.TP
\fBundelete\fR (\fBu\fR)
.NXR "undelete command (mail)"
Takes a message list and marks each one as
.I not
being deleted.
.TP
.B unset
.NXR "unset command (mail)"
Takes a list of option names and discards their remembered values;
the inverse of
.PN set .
.TP
\fBvisual\fR (\fBv\fR)
.NXR "visual command (mail)"
Takes a message list and invokes the display editor on each message.
.TP
\fBwrite\fR (\fBw\fR)
.NXR "write command (mail)"
Takes a message list and a file name and appends each
message to the end of the file.  Synonymous with
.PN save .
.TP
\fBxit\fR (\fBx\fR)
.NXR "xit command (mail)"
Returns to the Shell without modifying the user's
system mailbox,
.I mbox ,
or edit file in 
.PN \-f .
Synonymous with
.PN exit .
.TP
.B z
.NXR "z command (mail)"
Presents message headers in windowfulls as described under the
.PN headers
command.  You can move forward to the next window with the
.B z
command. Also, you can move to the previous window by using
.BR z\- .
.NXA "alias command (mail)" "unalias command (mail)"
.NXA "delete command (mail)" "undelete command (mail)"
.NXA "set command (mail)" "unset command (mail)"
.NXA "write command (mail)" "save command (mail)"
.NXA "xit command (mail)" "exit command (mail)"
.PP
The following is a summary of the tilde escape functions that
you can use when composing mail messages.  Note that you can only
invoke these
functions from within the body of a mail message and that
the sequences are only executed if they are placed at the
beginning of lines.
.NXR "mail program" "tilde escapes"
.TP 12n
.BR ~! command
Executes the indicated shell command, then returns to the message.
.TP
\fB~?  		
Prints a brief summary of tilde commands.
.TP
\fB~:
Executes the mail commands. (For example, the command 
.PN ~:10 
prints out message number 10 while
.PN ~:-
prints out the previous message. 		
.TP
\fB~c\fR name ...
Adds the given names to the list of carbon copy recipients.
.TP
.B ~d
Reads the file named dead.letter from your home directory into the message.
.TP
.B ~e
Invokes the text editor on the message you are typing.  After the
editing session is finished, you may continue appending text to the
message.
.TP
\fB~f\fR messages
Reads the named messages into the message being sent.
If no messages are specified, reads in the current message.
.TP
.B ~h
Edits the message header fields by typing each one in turn and allowing
the user to append text to the end or to modify the field by using the
current terminal erase and kill characters.
.TP
\fB~m\fR messages
Reads the named messages into the message being sent, shifted one tab 
space to the right.  If no messages are specified, reads the current message.
.TP
.B ~p
Prints the message on your terminal, prefaced by the message header
fields.
.TP
.B ~q
Aborts the message being sent, copying the message to
dead.letter
in your home directory if the
.B save
option is set.
.TP
\fB~r\fR filename
Reads the named file into the message.
.TP
\fB~s\fR string
Causes the named string to become the current subject field.
.TP
\fB~t\fR name ...
Adds the given names to the direct recipient list.
.TP
.B ~v
Invokes an alternate editor (defined by the VISUAL option) on the
message.  Usually, the alternate editor is a
screen editor.  After you quit the editor, you can resume appending
text to the end of your message.
.TP
\fB~w\fR filename
Writes the message onto the named file.
.TP
\fB~\||\|\fRcommand
Pipes the message through the command as a filter.  If the command gives
no output or terminates abnormally, retains the original text of the
message.  The command
fmt(1)
is often used as
.I command
to rejustify the message.
.TP
.BR ~~ string
Inserts the string of text in the message prefaced by a single 
tilde (~).  If
you have changed the escape character, then you should double
that character in order to send it.
.PP
Options are controlled via the
.PN set
and
.PN unset
commands.  Options may be either binary or string.  If
they are binary you should 
see whether or not they are set; if they are string
it is the actual value that is of interest.
.PP
The binary options include the following:
.NXR "set command (mail)" "options"
.TP 15n
.B append
Causes messages saved in
.I mbox
to be appended rather than prepended.
(This is set in
/usr/lib/Mail.rc
on version 7 systems.)
.TP
.B ask
Causes
.I mail
to prompt you for the subject of each message you send.  If
you simply respond with a new line, no subject field is sent.
.TP
.B askcc
Asks you at the end of each message whether you want to send a
carbon copy of the
message to additional recipients.  Responding with a new
line indicates your
satisfaction with the current list.
.TP
.B autoprint
Causes the
.PN delete
command to behave like
.PN dp
\- thus, after deleting a message, the next one is typed
automatically.
.TP
.B debug
Causes
.PN mail
to output information useful for debugging
.PN mail .
Setting the binary option
.I debug
is the same as specifying
.PN \-d
on the command line.
.TP
.B dot
Causes
.PN mail
to interpret a period alone on a line as the terminator
of a message you are sending.
.TP
.B hold
Holds messages in the system mailbox
by default.
.TP
.B ignore
Causes interrupt signals from your terminal to be ignored and echoed as
at signs (@).
.TP
.B ignoreeof
Causes
.PN mail
to refuse to accept a control-d as the end of a message.
.TP
.B msgprompt
Prompts you for the message text and
indicates how to terminate the message.
.TP
.B metoo
Includes the sender in the distribution group receiving
a mail message.
.TP
.B nosave
Prevents 
.PN mail
from copying aborted messages into the dead.letter file
in your home directory.
.TP
.B quiet
Suppresses the printing of the version when first invoked.
.TP
.B verbose
Displays the details of each message's delivery
on the user's terminal.  Setting the
.PN verbose
option is the same as typing
.B \-v
on the command line.
.PP
The string options include the following:
.TP 15n
EDITOR
Pathname of the text editor to use in the
.PN edit
command and ~e escape.  If not defined, then a default editor is used.
.TP
SHELL
Pathname of the shell to use in the
.B !
command and the ~! escape.  A default shell is used if this option is
not defined.
.TP
VISUAL
Pathname of the text editor to use in the
.PN visual
command and ~v escape.
.TP
.B crt
Threshold to determine how long a message must
be before
.PN more
is used to read it.
.TP
.B escape
The first character of this option gives the character to
use in the place of tilde (~) to denote escapes, if defined.
.TP
.B folder
Directory name to use for storing folders of
messages. If this name begins with a backslash (/)
.PN mail
considers it an absolute pathname; otherwise, the
folder directory is found relative to your home directory.
.TP
.B record
Pathname of the file used to record all outgoing
mail.  If it is not defined, then outgoing mail is not so saved.
.TP
.B toplines
The number of lines of a message that is printed out
with the
.B top
command; normally, the first five lines are printed.
.SH Return Values
If mail is invoked with the \fB\-e\fR option, the following exit values are
returned: 
.nf
0	the user has mail
1	the user has no mail
.fi
.SH Files
.if n .ta 2.5i
.if t .ta 1.8i
/usr/spool/mail/* 	mail directory	
.br
~/mbox	your read mail
.br
~/.mailrc	file giving initial mail commands
.br
/tmp/R#	temporary for editor escape
.br
/usr/lib/Mail.help*	help files
.br
/usr/lib/Mail.rc	system initialization file
.br
Message*	temporary for editing messages
.SH See Also
binmail(1), fmt(1), newaliases(1), aliases(5),
mailaddr(7), sendmail(8)
.NXR "mail program"
.NXR "mail" "sending"
