.\" SCCSID: @(#)man.1	8.2	4/1/91
.TH man 1
.SH Name
man \- displays manual pages online
.SH Syntax
.B man \-k
.I keyword...
.br
.B man \-f
.I page_title...
.br
.B man
[
.I options
] [
.BI \- roff_options
]... [
.I section
]
.I page_title...
.br
.B man
[
.I options
] [
.I section page_title...
]...
.sp
.B /usr/bin/man 
[
.I option
] [
.I section
]
.I page_title...
.br
.B /usr/bin/man
[
.I options
] [
.I section page_title...
]...
.SH Description
.NXR "man command"
.NXA "man command" "man macro package"
.NXAM "man command" "catman command"
.NXR "man command" "locating online information"
There are two
.PN man
commands:
.PN /usr/ucb/man ,
and
.PN /usr/bin/man .
For most users,
.PN /usr/ucb/man
is the default
.PN man
command.  The command
.EX 5
which man
.EE
shows you which
.PN man
command is the default.  The recommended default is
.PN /usr/ucb/man .
.PP
Both
the
.PN man
commands
provide online displays of specified reference pages.
.SS The /usr/ucb/man Command.
The basic function of this command is to provide online displays of
reference pages.
You can use
.IR options,
however, to direct the 
.PN man 
command to display one line summaries of reference pages which
contain specific keywords, to display
one line summaries of specific reference pages, to use special formatting
options when preparing the reference page for display or printing, and
to search alternate reference page directories for specified reference
pages.
.PP
If an option is not used, the 
.PN man
command formats and displays one or more specified
reference pages.
If there are multiple reference pages which match a specified name, only
the first matching reference page is displayed.  If there are multiple matches
in a section for a specified name, the matching page in the first
alphabetically occurring subsection is displayed.
.PP
If you specify the
.PN man
command with a
.I section
argument, the
.PN man
command looks in that section of the reference pages for the
specified page titles.
A
.I section
consists of a number in the range 0 to 9, optionally followed by
an alphanumeric subsection, or
.I section
can be the name `local', `new', `old', or `public'.  Numbers 0 and 9
are non-standard.  
If a
.PN section
is omitted,
the 
.PN man
command searches all sections of the reference pages.   The
.PN man
command displays commands (both standard and local) over subroutines in system
libraries,
and displays the first occurrence it finds, if any.  If Section 1 is
specified, the sections n, l, and o are also searched, if they
exist.
.PP
The
.I section
and
.I page_title...
arguments can be paired, so that multiple pages can be searched for in a
section, and multiple sections can be searched for a page or pages.
.PP
All displays are directed to standard out, unless redirected, or unless the
.PN \-t
option is specified.
If the standard output is a teletype device,
the
.PN man
command completes the following: pipes the output through the
.MS cat 1
command using the option
.B \-s
to eliminate unnecessary blank lines and
invokes the
.MS page 1
command using the option
.B \-s
to display a screen at a time.
.PP
If a specified reference page is not already formatted, but the source file
exists, the
.PN man
command preprocesses the file through the
.MS tbl 1
command.
The command next pipes the output to the
.MS nroff 1
command, or to
the
.PN troff
command if the
.PN \-t
option was specified,
using the
.MS man 7
macros package.
If the
.PN tbl
output was directed to the
.PN nroff
command, the output is then piped through the
.MS col 1
postprocessor, then directed to standard out.
If the appropriate
.PN /usr/man/cat?
directory exists, the formatted display is saved there.
.SS The /usr/bin/man Command
The
.PN /usr/bin/man
command performs the same basic function as the
.PN /usr/ucb/man
command, that is, formats and displays or prints specified reference
pages.  It does not provide all the functions of
.PN /usr/ucb/man ,
and there are some differences in common functions.
.PP
The
.PN /usr/bin/man
command searches for the specified reference pages,
and formats and displays all reference pages matching the specified names.
If no
.I section
is specified, all sections 1 through 8 are searched.
In the case of multiple matches, the display order is in numeric section
order, and ASCII subsection order within a section.
.PP
All displays are directed to standard out, unless redirected, or unless
an option is used which requests processing through the
.PN troff
command.
If a
.PN troff 
option was not specified, then the standard output is to a teletype device.
If the standard output is a teletype device,
the
.PN /usr/bin/man
pipes the output through the
.MS col 1
postprocessor, then directs the output to standard out.
.PP
The
.PN /usr/bin/man
command does not use preformatted files.  It searches only the
.PN /usr/man/man[1-8]
directories for source files.
.PP
If a specified file exists, it is always preprocessed through the
.MS tbl 1
command.
.PP
If an option is not used, the
.PN /usr/bin/man
command formats and displays specified reference pages using the
.PN nroff
command.
.PP
If multiple options are specified, only the last one is executed, except
that multiple \fIroff_options\fP
are accepted and executed.
.SH Options
.NXR "man command" "options"
.SS /usr/ucb/man Options
The following options are recognized only by the
.PN /usr/ucb/man
command.  Note that the options
.PN \-
and
.PN \-k
do not have the same functionality as the corresponding
.PN /usr/bin/man
options.
.IP \- 12
Squeeze multiple blank lines from output.  
.IP \-f
Display one line summaries of each page title specified on
the command line.
.IP \-k
Display one line summaries of each reference page that contains 
the specified keyword or keywords.  
.IP "\-P \fImanpath\fP"
Search the specified \fImanpath\fP directory instead of
.PN /usr/man .
.IP \-s
Remove unnecessary blank lines.  
.IP \-t
Phototypesets the output through the
.PN troff
command.
.IP
This
option requires the installation of the
.PN troff
command, which is unsupported.  
When the 
.B \-t 
option is specified,
the 
.PN troff 
output is directed, by 
.PN lpr \'s
.B \-t
option, to the printer or typesetter specified by the PRINTER
environment variable.  PRINTER must be set to a printer
which is capable of handling 
.PN troff 
output files.  The default is the lp printer (see
.MS lpr 1  
description of the 
.B \-t 
option for more information).
.SS /usr/bin/man Options
The following options are recognized by the
.PN /usr/bin/man
command.  Note that the options
.PN \-
and
.PN \-k
do not have the same functionality as the corresponding
.PN /usr/ucb/man
options.
.IP "\-\fIroff_options\fR" 12
Inserts the specified
\fIroff_option\fR in front of the
.B \-man
option when the appropriate *roff text formatter is called (the other
options determine which *roff formatter is called).  Multiple
\fIroff_options\fP can be specified.  If a null value is specified, the results
are unpredictable.
.IP "\-e | \-et | \-te"
Preproceses the display with the
.PN eqn
command, then performs the same steps
as the
.PN \-t
option.
.IP
This
option requires the installation of the
.PN eqn
and
.PN troff
commands, which are unsupported.  
.IP "\-ek | \-ke"
Preproceses the display with the
.PN eqn
command, then performs the same steps
as the
.PN \-k
option.
.IP
This
option requires the installation of the
.PN eqn ,
.PN tc ,
and 
.PN troff
commands, which are unsupported.
.IP \-k
Formats the display through the
.PN troff
command, using troff's
.PN \-t
option, then directs the output to the
.PN tc
command.
.IP
This
option requires the installation of the
.PN tc
and 
.PN troff
commands, which are unsupported.
.IP \-n
Formats the display through the
.PN nroff
command.  This is the default.
.IP "\-ne | \-en"
Preproceses the display with the
.PN neqn
command, then performs the same steps
as the
.PN \-n
option.
.IP
This
option requires the installation of the
.PN neqn
command, which is unsupported.
.IP \-t
Photypesets the output through the
.PN troff
command.
.IP
This
option requires the installation of the
.PN troff
command, which is unsupported.
.IP \-w
Shows where the specified reference pages
are located, relative to the
.PN /usr/man
directory.
.SH Restrictions
The reference pages are reproducible on phototypesetters
or on hardcopy devices.  However, some devices do not 
properly handle special characters which causes information to
be lost.
.PP
Some options require the installation of unsupported software.  Use of these
options is at your own risk.
.PP
Options which call the
.PN neqn
or
.PN eqn
commands will generally fail when used with the ULTRIX reference pages,
because any ULTRIX reference pages which use
.PN *eqn
commands were preprocessed through the
.PN neqn
text formatter before being packaged for shipment to you.
.PN *eqn
text preprocessors generally report numerous errors when attempts are
made to reprocess files a second time through an
.PN *eqn
text preprocessor.
.PP
Both
.PN /usr/ucb/man
and
.PN /usr/bin/man
commands 
.PN cd 
to the
.PN /usr/man
directory before searching for and formatting files.  Some reference
pages assume that this happens.  Therefore, an attempt to format some
reference pages manually with a
.PN *roff
text formatter may fail if you are not sitting in the
.PN /usr/man
directory.
.SS /usr/ucb/man Restrictions
If a specified reference page exists in the appropriate
.PN /usr/man/man?
directory,
but there is no appropriate
.PN /usr/man/cat?
directory, you will not be able to scroll backwards in the display.
.PP
The man directories for sections n, l, o, p, 0 and 9 are optional
directories. They must be created
by the system administrator.
.PP
The
.PN /usr/man/cat?
directories are not required to exist.  They must be created by the
system administrator.  This is generally done through the
.MS catman 8
command.
.SH Examples
.SS /usr/ucb/man Examples
The following examples all assume the use of the default command:
.PN /usr/ucb/man .
.PP
The following example shows how to locate reference pages containing the
keyword `graph':
.EX 5
% man \-k graph
.EE
The following example shows how to display the
.MS graph 1g
reference page:
.EX 5
% man 1g graph
.EE
The following example shows how to display 
.PN plot
reference pages:
.EX 5
% man 1 plot 3 plot
.EE
The following example shows how to display 
.PN chmod
and 
.PN chown
reference
pages:
.EX 5
% man 1 chmod chown 2 chmod chown
.EE
The following example shows how to display a reference page 
.PN test
in the
.PN /usr/man/manl
directory.  In order to locate the 
.PN test
reference page here, it must have
the file name
.PN test.l ,
so its reference page title would be
.MS test l .
.EX 5
% man local test
.EE
To locate the 
.PN test
reference pages in Section 1:
.EX 5
% man 1 test 1sh5 test
.EE
If you have a directory
.PN /usr/local/man
which contains
.PN man?
subdirectories, which also contain reference pages, then the following
example shows how to display a reference page 
.PN games
located somewhere
in a subdirectory of
.PN /usr/local/man:
.EX 5
% man \-P /usr/local games
.EE
.SS /usr/bin/man Examples
The following example shows how to display
.PN chmod 
reference pages:
.EX 5
% /usr/bin/man chmod 
.EE
The above displays all the 
.PN chmod
reference pages from all sections of
the installed reference pages.
.PP
The following example shows how to display all the 
.PN test
reference pages in Section 1:
.EX 5
% /usr/bin/man 1 test
.EE
.PP
The following example shows how to locate all the 
.PN test
reference pages:
.EX 5
% /usr/bin/man \-w test
.EE
.PP
The following example shows how to locate all the 
.PN intro
reference pages
in 
Section 3:
.EX 5
% /usr/bin/man \-w 3 intro
.EE
The following example displays the
.MS man 1
reference page with a starting page number of 10.
.EX 5
% /usr/bin/man \-n10 1 man
.EE
.SH Files
.TP 20
.PN /usr/ucb/man
The default 
.PN man
command.
.TP
.PN /usr/bin/man
The alternate 
.PN man
command.
.TP
.PN /usr/man/man?/*
These directories contain the online reference pages which
are divided into sections 1 through 8, n, l, o, and p.  Sections 0
and 9 can also exist but these are non-standard sections.
.TP
.PN /usr/man/cat?/*
These directories contain the files generated by the
.PN man
and
.PN catman
commands.
.TP
.PN /usr/lib/whatis
This file contains the summary lines of each reference page.
.TP
.PN \fImanpath\fP/man/man?/*
These directories contain reference pages to be searched by the
.PN man
command when the
.PN \-P
.I manpath
option is specified. These directories must have the same 
organization and format as
.PN /usr/man .
.SH See Also
apropos(1), col(1), nroff(1), page(1), tbl(1),
whatis(1), whereis(1), man(7), catman(8)
