.TH mark 1mh
.SH Name
mark \- mark messages
.SH Syntax
.NXR "mark command"
.NXR "message sequences"
.B mark
[
.I +folder
] [
.I msgs
] [
.I options
]
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Description
Use the 
.PN mark
command to assign a name to a sequence of messages 
within the current folder.  
.PP
A sequence is a number of messages that are grouped together
under a name.
You can then use that name with any MH command 
instead of a message number,
to perform the command on all the messages in the sequence.
You can still continue to handle messages individually
when they belong to a sequence, just as you did before.
Sequences are specific to a particular folder.
You can use the same name for sequences in different folders
without causing problems.
.PP
By default, 
.PN mark
operates on the sequences in the current folder.
You can specify another folder by using the
.I +folder 
argument.
.PP
When you create a sequence using
.PN mark ,
the ordering of messages within the folder remains unchanged.  
So if messages 3, 7 and 9 are put into the sequence, 
they are still numbered as messages 3, 7 and 9 
when you use 
.PN scan
to list the contents of the folder.
The
.PN scan
command does not show you what sequences messages belong to;
you must use
.PN mark
to find this information.
.PP
The 
.PN mark
command is used only to modify sequences, not messages.
If you delete a message from a sequence using 
.PN mark ,
it remains in the folder.
However, when a message is deleted or moved from a folder 
(for example, using
.MS rmm 1mh
or
.MS refile 1mh ),
it is removed from all the sequences in that folder.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Options
.IP "\-add" 10
Adds messages to sequences.
The
.PN mark
command takes the messages specified by the 
.I msgs 
argument, and adds them to the sequence named by using the 
.B \-sequence
.I name
option.
If no 
.I msgs 
argument is given, the current message is added to the sequence.
This option can also be used in conjunction with the 
.B \-zero
option.
.IP
This option cannot be used in conjunction with the
.B \-delete 
or 
.B \-list
options.
If you attempt to use two or more of these options together,
.PN mark
takes the last occurrence of any of them,
and ignores any previous occurrences.
.\"
.IP "\-delete" 10
Deletes messages from sequences.
The
.PN mark 
command removes the messages specified by the
.I msgs 
argument from the named sequences.
As with 
.BR \-add ,
the sequences are specified using the
.B \-sequence
.I name
option.
If no 
.I msgs 
argument is given, the current message is removed 
from the named sequences.
This option can also be used in conjunction with the 
.B \-zero 
option.
.IP
This option cannot be used in conjunction with the
.B \-add
or
.B \-list
options.
If you attempt to use two or more of these options together,
.PN mark
takes the last occurrence of any of them,
and ignores any previous occurrences.
.\"
.IP "\-help" 10
Prints a list of the valid options to this command.
.\"
.IP "\-list" 10
Lists the sequences defined for the current folder 
and the messages associated with those sequences.
If you wish to list only particular sequences in a folder,
you can specify them by using the 
.B \-sequence
.I name
option.
If you do not use this option, 
.PN mark 
lists all the sequences in the current folder.
You can also list sequences in another folder by using the 
.I +folder
argument.
.IP
This option cannot be used in conjunction with the
.B \-add
or
.B \-delete
options.
If you attempt to use two or more of these options together,
.PN mark
takes the last occurrence of any of them,
and ignores any previous occurrences.
.IP
The
.PN mark
command automatically lists the sequences in the folder
unless you use the 
.B \-add
or
.B \-delete
options, or unless you give a 
.I msgs 
argument.
.\"
.IP "\-public" 10
.PD 0
.IP "\-nopublic" 10
.PD
Indicates that the sequence being created 
should be made readable for other MH users.
When you use the 
.B \-add
option to create a sequence, the
.B \-public
option makes the sequence public, that is, 
readable to other MH users.
By contrast, the 
.B \-nopublic
option indicates that the sequence should be private,
or exclusive to your own MH environment.
.\"
.IP "\-sequence \fIname..." 10
Specifies the sequence(s) you wish to list or modify.
You use this option in conjunction with the
.BR \-add ,
.BR \-delete ,
and 
.B \-list
options, to name the sequences you wish to 
add messages to, delete messages from, or list.
You can name more than one sequence by listing the names
with a space separating them; you do not need to repeat
.B \-sequence
before each sequence name.
.\"
.IP "\-zero" 10
.PD 0
.IP "\-nozero" 10
.PD
Modifies the behavior of the 
.B \-add
and 
.B \-delete
options.
.IP 
If you use the 
.B \-zero
option with
.BR \-add ,
all messages are removed from the named sequence
before the new messages are added to it.
This means that the sequence contains only the new messages 
that you have just added.
The
.B \-nozero
option simply adds the new messages to the existing sequence,
without deleting any of the messages already in the sequence.
This is the default behavior.
.IP
If you use 
.B \-zero 
with 
.BR \-delete ,
all of the messages in the folder are added to the named sequence,
and then the messages you specify are deleted from the sequence.
This means that the sequence contains all the messages in the folder
except those that you have named.
The
.B \-nozero
option simply removes the messages you specify from the sequence,
leaving the rest of the contents of the sequence intact.
This is the default behavior.
.\"
.PP
The defaults for this command are:
.IP
.I +folder
defaults to the current folder
.br
.I msgs
defaults to the current message 
(or all messages if 
.B \-list
is specified)
.br
.B \-add
if a 
.I msgs
argument is specified, 
.B \-list
otherwise
.br
.B \-nopublic
if the folder is read-only, 
.B \-public
otherwise
.br
.B \-nozero
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Restrictions
MH allows a maximum of ten sequences in any folder.
.PP
The names of sequences must consist entirely of alphabetic
or numeric characters, and must begin with an alphabetic character.
Punctuation is not allowed.
In addition, certain names are reserved for use by MH.
These include
\f(CWfirst\fR,
\f(CWnext\fR,
\f(CWprev\fR,
and
\f(CWcur\fR.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Examples
The first example shows how 
.PN mark 
lists all the sequences in a named folder:
.EX
% \f(CBmark\f(CW
cur: 20
Admail: 1 5 9-12
test: 3-7
.EE
This output is identical to that produced by using the 
.B \-list
option.
.PP
The next example creates a sequence called \f(CWodd\fR,
containing the first five odd-numbered messages:
.EX
% \f(CBmark -add -sequence odd 1 3 5 7 9\f(CW
% \f(CBmark\f(CW
cur: 20
Admail: 1 5 9-12
odd: 1 3 5 7 9
test: 3-7
.EE
.PP
The next example deletes message 3 from the sequences 
\f(CWtest\fR and \f(CWodd\fR:
.EX
% \f(CBmark -delete -sequence test odd 3\f(CW
% \f(CBmark\f(CW
cur: 20
Admail: 1 5 9-12
odd: 1 5 7 9
test: 4-7
.EE
.PP
The final example illustrates how the 
.B \-zero
option works with
.BR \-add .
All messages are first removed from the sequence \f(CWtest\fR,
and then messages 1 to 3 are added.
The result is that \f(CWtest\fR contains only messages 1 to 3:
.EX
% \f(CBmark -add -zero -sequence test 1-3\f(CW
% \f(CBmark\f(CW
cur: 20
Admail: 1 5 9-12
odd: 1 5 7 9
test: 1-3
.EE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Profile Components
.TS 
tab(+);
l l.
Path:+To determine your Mail directory
.TE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Files
.TP 10
.PN $HOME/.mh_profile
The user profile.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH See Also
folder(1mh), pick(1mh), sortm(1mh)
