.TH mhpath 1mh
.SH Name
mhpath \- print full pathnames of MH messages and folders
.SH Syntax
.B mhpath
[
.I +foldername
] [
.I msgs
] [
.B \-help
]
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Description
.NXR "mhpath command"
.NXR "display folders" "pathname"
.PP
Use the 
.PN mhpath
command to display the full pathname of the specified folder.
If you do not specify a folder, 
.PN mhpath 
displays the pathname of the current folder.
.PP
If you specify a message with its message number,
.PN mhpath 
displays the pathname of the specified message.
You can also specify a number of messages, or a range of messages.
If the top of the range that you specify is greater than the last message in
the folder, 
.PN mhpath
displays as much of the specified range as possible.
.PP
Additionally
.PN mhpath 
can take a keyword or a sequence name.  
The following keywords are acceptable:
.TP 10
\f(CWfirst\fR
The first message in the folder.
.TP 10
\f(CWlast\fR
The last message in the folder.
.TP 10
\f(CWnew\fR
The message after the last message in the folder.
You cannot use \f(CWnew\fR as part of a message range.
.TP 10
\f(CWcur\fR
The current message in the folder.
.TP 10
\f(CWprev\fR
The message before the current message.
.TP 10
\f(CWnext\fR
The message after the current message.
.TP 10
\f(CWall\fR  
All of the messages in the folder.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Options
.IP "\-help" 10
Prints a list of the valid options to this command.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Examples
In the following example, 
.PN mhpath 
displays message 3 in the folder 
.PN +inbox :
.EX
% \f(CBmhpath +inbox 3\f(CW
/r/phyl/Mail/inbox
.EE
.PP
The following example displays the pathname of messages 2 to 5 
in the current folder:
.EX
% \f(CBmhpath 2-5\f(CW
/r/phyl/Mail/inbox/2
/r/phyl/Mail/inbox/3
/r/phyl/Mail/inbox/4
/r/phyl/Mail/inbox/5
.EE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Profile Components
.TS
tab(+);
l l.
Path:+To determine your Mail directory
.TE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Files
.TP 10
.PN $HOME/.mh_profile
The user profile.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH See Also
folder(1mh)
