.TH msgchk 1mh
.SH Name
msgchk \- check for messages
.SH Syntax
.B msgchk
[
.B \-help
] [
.B \-nodate
] [
.B "\-notify \fIall|mail|nomail"
] 
.\" [
.\" .B \-[no]rpop
.\" ] [
.\" .B "\-source \fIsourcename"
.\" ] 
[
.I "users ..."
]
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" ***COMMENTED OUT
.\" .SH Arguments
.\" .IP \fIusers 10
.\" Name of the user or users whose maildrops you are checking.
.\" You can use 
.\" .PN msgchk
.\" to check on the status of other users' maildrops 
.\" by specifying their user names.  
.\" ***END OF COMMENTS
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Description
.NXR "msgchk command"
.NXR "messages" "checking for" 
The 
.PN msgchk
program checks all known mail drops for mail that is waiting
for you.  
It displays whether you have mail waiting to be read or not 
and shows the date that you last read your mail.  
.\"
.\" ***Old Arguments info
.\"
.PP
You can check other user's maildrops by specifying their user
names as the
.I users
argument on the command line.
.\"
.\" ***End of old Arguments info
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Options
.IP \-help 10
Prints a list of the valid options for this command.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-date 10
.PD 0
.IP \-nodate 10
.PD
Prints the date when you last read your mail.
This is the default behavior of 
.PN msgchk .
The
.B \-nodate
option can be used of you do not want to print this date.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-notify "\fIall|mail|nomail" 10
.PD 0
.IP \-nonotify "\fIall|mail|nomail" 10
.PD
Indicates under what circumstances 
.PN msgchk
should produce a message.
There are three legal values:
\fBall\fR, \fBmail\fR, and \fBnomail\fR.
The default is \fB\-notify all\fR, which reports the status 
of the maildrop regardless of whether it has mail in it or not.  
The 
.B \-notify\ mail
option reports the status of the maildrop 
only if there is mail waiting.
The 
.B \-notify\ nomail
option reports the status of the maildrop
only if there is no mail in it.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" ***COMMENTED OUT
.ig
.IP \-rpop 10
.PD 0
.IP \-norpop 10
.PD
Indicates whether incoming mail should be carried over
a trusted or non-trusted link.
If you use the
.B \-source\ x400
option, the incoming X.400 mail
can be carried over a trusted or a non-trusted link.
In the non-trusted case, the mail system prompts
you to supply a password.
You can specify a trusted link by using the
.B \-rpop
option, or a non-trusted link by using \fB\-norpop\fR.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.IP \-source\ \fIsourcename
Specifies which sources 
.PN msgchk
should check for incoming mail.
The option recognizes two arguments:
.B \-source\ file
checks the maildrop; and
.B \-source\ x400
checks for incoming mail sent over the X.400 transport system.
You can specify one or both of these options with the same command.
In this case,
.PN msgchk
will display a separate message for each option.
If you do not specify a
.B \-source
option,
.PN msgchk
will check all known sources.
So 
.PN msgchk
notifies you of all incoming mail,
whatever source it comes from.
..
.\" ***END OF COMMENTS
.\"
.\"
.IP "\-source file"
Specifies the source which are checked for mail.
The only value allowed is \fBfile\fR,
which is the user's maildrop.
Additional values are supported only for use with other
mail systems.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Restrictions
.PN msgchk
does not understand the \f(CW$MAILDROP\fR
environmental variable.
If mail is fetched from a location other than 
.PN /usr/spool/mail/$USER ,
.PN msgchk
will not be able to determine if new mail has arrived.
However, 
.PN inc
can still be used to fetch mail when it arrives.
.\" 
.\" This restriction applies only to the standard maildrop,
.\" not to the X.400 maildrop.
.\"
.PP
For this version, the
.B \-source
option only supports the value \fBfile\fR.
Additional values are supported for use only with
other mail systems.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Examples
This example shows a user \f(CWSmith\fR checking his own maildrop:
.EX
% \f(CBmsgchk\f(CW
Smith:
   New file source mail waiting ; last read on Tue, 07 Jun 88 17
:21:49 WET
.EE
.PP
The next example shows a user checking the maildrops of two other
local users on the same system, \f(CWRabb\fR and \f(CWJones\fR:
.EX
% \f(CBmsgchk Rabb Jones\f(CW
Rabb:
   No file-source mail waiting ; last read on Tue, 07 Jun 13:22:
25 WET 
Jones:
   New file source mail waiting ; last read on Tue, 07 Jun 17:30
:05 WET
.EE
.\"
.\" ***EXAMPLE COMMENTED OUT
.ig
.PP
The next example shows a user checking his maildrop,
and also checking for new X.400 mail, by using the
.B \-source
option:
.EX
% \f(CBmsgchk -source file -source x400\f(CW
Smith:
   No file-source mail waiting ; last read on Tue, 07 Jun 17:23:
04 WET
   New x400 source mail waiting ; last read on Tue, 07 Jun 17:27
:59 WET
.EE
..
.\" ***END OF COMMENTS
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Files
.TP 10
.PN $HOME/\&.mh_profile
The user profile.
.TP 10
.PN /usr/lib/mh/mtstailor
The system customization file.
.TP 10
.PN /usr/spool/mail/$USER
The user's maildrop.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH See Also
inc(1mh)
