.\" SCCSID: @(#)msgs.1	8.1	9/11/90
.TH msgs 1 "" "" Unsupported
.SH Name
msgs \- system messages and junk mail program
.SH Syntax
.B msgs
[
.B \-fhlpq
] [
.I number
] [
.I \-number
]
.br
.B msgs \-s
.br
.B msgs \-c 
[
\fI\-days\fP
]
.SH Description
The 
.PN msgs
command
is used to read system messages.
These messages are
sent by mailing to the login ``msgs'' and should be short
pieces of information that are suitable to be read once by most users
of the system.
.PP
The
.PN msgs
command
is normally invoked each time you log in, by placing it in the file
.PN \&.login
.PN (\&.profile
if you use
.PN /bin/sh ).
It will then prompt you with the source and subject of each new message.
If there is no subject line, the first few non-blank lines of the
message will be displayed.
If there is more to the message, you will be told how
long it is and asked whether you wish to see the rest of the message.
The possible responses are:
.TP 10
.B y
Type the rest of the message
.TP 
.B RETURN
Synonym for y.
.TP
.B n
Skip this message
and go on to the next message.
.TP 
.B \-
Redisplay the last message.
.TP 
.B q
Drops you out of
.I msgs;
the next time you run the program it will pick up where you left off.
.TP 
.B s
Append the current message to the file 
.PN Messages 
in the current directory;
.B s\- 
saves the previously displayed message. Entering 
.B s 
or 
.B s\- 
followed by a space and a filename specifies writing the message to
a file other than the
default,
.PN Messages .
.TP 
\fBm\fR or \fBm\-\fR
Causes a copy of the specified message to be placed in a temporary
mailbox and 
.PN mail 
to be invoked on that mailbox.
.PP
Both 
.B m 
and 
.B s 
accept a numeric argument in place of the `\-'.
.PP
The 
.PN msgs
command keeps track of the next message you will see by a number in the file
.PN \&.msgsrc
in your home directory.
In the directory
.PN /usr/msgs ,
it keeps a set of files whose names are the (sequential) numbers
of the messages they represent.
The file
.PN /usr/msgs/bounds
shows the low and high number of the messages in the directory
so that
.PN msgs
can quickly determine if there are no messages for you.
If the contents of
.PN bounds
is incorrect it can be fixed by removing it;
.PN msgs
will make a new
.PN bounds
file the next time you run 
.PN msgs .
.SH Options
.TP 10
.B \-f
Causes it not to say ``No new messages.''.
This is useful in your
.PN \&.login
file since this is often the case here.
.TP 10
.B \-q
Queries whether there are messages, printing
``There are new messages.'' if there are.
The command ``msgs \-q'' is often used in login scripts.
.TP 10
.B \-h
Causes
.PN msgs
to print the first part of messages only.
.TP 10
.B \-l
Causes only locally originated messages to be reported.
.TP 10
.I number
causes
.PN msgs
to start at the message specified by 
.I number,
rather than at the next message
indicated by your
.I \&.msgsrc
file.
Thus
.IP "" 5
	% \fBmsgs 5\fB
.IP "" 5
	causes 
.PN msgs
to begin at the fifth message.
.TP 10
.I "\-number"
Causes
.PN msgs
to start
.I number
messages back from the one indicated by your 
.I \&.msgsrc
file. This option is useful for reviewing recent messages.
.TP 10
.B \-p
Causes long messages to be piped through
.PN more .
.TP 10
.B \-s
Adds a new message to 
.PN /usr/msgs .
.TP 10
.B \-c
Removes messages that have been in 
.PN /usr/msgs
more than a specified number of days from that file.
.TP
.I \-days
Determines the number of days a message is in
.PN /usr/msgs
before it is removed. You must be the superuser to use the
.B \-c 
option.
.PP
Within
.PN msgs
you can also go to any specific message by typing its number when
.PN msgs
requests input. 
.SH Files
.ta 2i
\f(CW/usr/msgs/*\fR	database
.br
\f(CW~/.msgsrc\fR	number of next message to be presented
.SH See Also
mail(1), more(1)
