.TH newinv 1
.SH Name
newinv \- update distribution kit master inventory
.SH Syntax
.B /usr/sys/dist/newinv 
.I mi-file
.I input-path
.SH Description
.NX R "setld" "newinv command"
.NX R "newinv command"
.NX R "kits" "updating master inventory"
The
.PN newinv
command interactively maintains the master inventory
files used for producing distributions in
.PN setld
format. The program updates the master
inventory for a product when changes are made to the hierarchy of files
which are to be packaged in the subsets which constitute the product.
.PP
The product hierarchy is scanned to produce a list
of component path names relative to
.I input-path.
The list of path names is processed against the
.I mi-file
to produce a list of those files which have been removed from
the product hierarchy and a list of those files which have been added.
.PP
The user is then given an opportunity to intervene and
direct the inventory maintenance by editing these lists.
The user is placed in the editor with each list available for editing.
The editor used is the one specified by the
.I EDITOR
environment variable. If
.I EDITOR
is not set,
.PN vi
is used.
When editing the list of files which have been removed from the
product, the user is expected to verify that the removals
were intentional, and confirm the intent by removing the associated
record from the file. When editing the list of files which have
been added to the product, the user is expected to provide
flags and subset information for each new file, transforming the
elements of the list into master inventory records.
.PP
Both of these lists are merged with the records for the files which
have not been changed to produce
a new copy of the master inventory file.
.SS Arguments
.TP 15
.I mi-file
The pathname of the master inventory file to be processed. If no
master inventory file exists, you must create an empty one before using
the
.PN newinv
command.
.TP
.I input-path
The name of the product hierarchy to be scanned for files belonging
in the inventory. All files and directories found below the
.I input-path
will be processed as belonging in the inventory.
.SH Restrictions
The default text editor if not specified in
.I $EDITOR
is 
.PN /usr/ucb/vi .
.PP
Files in the product hierarchy cannot be excluded from the
master inventory. Files can be blocked from being kitted in
the final distribution kit by setting the subset field of
the master inventory record to
.I NOSHIP.
.SH Examples
To update the master inventory file 
.I ULT400.mi
from the hierarchy beginning at
.I /var/kits/input,
type:
.EX
    newinv ULT400.mi /var/kits/input
.EE
.SH Diagnostics
.B newinv: where is
.I mi-file?
.br
The
.I mi-file
specified on the command line cannot be found.
.PP
.I input-path:
.B bad directory.
.br
The
.I input-path
directory specified on the command line does not exist.
.SH Files
.TP 15
.PN mi-file.bkp
Backup copy of master inventory
.TP
.PN mi-file.dead
The list of files missing from the product.
.TP
.PN mi-file.extra
The list of files new to the product.
.TP
.PN mi-file.join
Intermediate join file.
.TP
.PN mi-file.tmp
List of all files in the product.
.SH See Also
kits(1), vi(1), stl_mi(5), environ(7), setld(8)
.br
\fIGuide to Preparing Software for Distribution on ULTRIX Systems\fP
