.TH nm 1 RISC
.SH Name
nm \- name list dump of RISC object files
.SH Syntax
.B "nm [-adefghnopruvxABTV] [ file1 ... filen ]"
.SH Description
The 
.B nm
command prints listings formats for the symbol and external sections
of the symbol table.
A 
.I file
can be an object or an archive.  If you do not specify a file,
this command assumes 
.B a.out.
.SH Options
The
.B \-A
and
.B \-B
options specify AT&T System V style output or Berkeley (4.3  BSD) 
style output, respectively.  The default is Berkeley (4.3 BSD).
.NT
Some options can change the version-specific defaults. These options 
change the meaning of overloaded flags after -A or -B is specified.
.NE
.PP
A normal Berkeley system produces the
.I address 
or 
.I value
field followed by a 
.I letter
showing what section the symbol or external is in and the 
.I name
of the symbol or external.
.PP
These section letters describe the information that 
.B nm 
generates:
.TP 5
.B N
nil storage class, compiler internal usage
.TP 5
.B T
external text
.TP 5
.B t
local text
.TP 5
.B D
external initialized data
.TP 5
.B d
local initialized data
.TP 5
.B B
external zeroed data
.TP 5
.B b
local zeroed data
.TP 5
.B A
external absolute
.TP 5
.B a
local absolute
.TP 5
.B U
external undefined
.TP 5
.B G
external small initialized data
.TP 5
.B g
local small initialized data
.TP 5
.B S
external small zeroed data
.TP 5
.B s
local small zeroed data
.TP 5
.B R
external read only
.TP 5
.B r
local read only
.TP 5
.B C
common
.TP 5
.B E
small common
.TP 5
.B V
external small undefined
.PP
The standard  System V format and the
.B \-a
specified Berkeley format provide an expanded listing with these
columns:
.TP 8
.B Name
the symbol or external name
.TP 8
.B Value
the value field for the symbol or external, usually an address or
interesting debugging information
.TP 8
.B Class
the symbol type
.TP 8
.B Type
the symbol's language declaration
.TP 8
.B Size
unused
.TP 8
.B Index
the symbol's index field
.TP 8
.B Section
the symbol's storage class
.NT
Every effort was made to map the field's functionality into System V
nomenclature.
.NE
The 
.B nm
command accepts these options:
.TP 5
.B -a
prints debugging information, effectively turning Berkeley into System V format
.TP 5
.B -b
prints the value field in octal
.TP 5
.B -d
prints the value field in decimal (the System V default)
.TP 5
.B -e
prints external and statics only
.TP 5
.B -f
produces full output\(em\fBnm\fR still accepts this old option, but ignores
it
.TP 5
.B -h
does not print headers
.TP 5
.B -n
for System V, sorts external symbols by name (default for Berkeley), and
for Berkeley, sorts all symbols by value
.TP 5
.B -o
for System V, prints the value field in octal, and
for Berkeley prepends the filename to each symbol\(emgood for 
grepping through \fBnm\fR
of libraries
.TP 5
.B -p
prints symbols as they are found in the file (the System V default)
.TP 5
.B -r
reverses the sense of a value or name sort
.TP 5
.B -u
prints only undefined symbols
.TP 5
.B -v
sorts external symbols by value
.TP 5
.B -x
prints value field in hexadecimal (Berkeley default)
.TP 5
.B -T
truncates long names, inserting an asterisk (*) as the last printed character
.TP 5
.B -V
prints version information on stderr




