.\" SCCSID: @(#)nsquery.1	8.1	9/11/90
.\" Written by liza sanford-crane  (2/29/88)
.\" Updated for v4.0 by nolan ring (6/27/89)
.\" Updated to include editorial comments by jeff mandell (10/31/89)
.\"  (the list of files included here also appears in nslookup (1)
.\"   resolver (3), resolver (5), and named - the descriptions of the
.\"   files must be changed in those ref pages to be like this) 
.\" Re-edited after meeting with Dave S. re: format (jm 11/8/89)
.TH nsquery 1
.SH Name
nsquery \- name server query command
.SH Syntax
.B /usr/ucb/nsquery
[
.B lookup
]
[
.I host
]
[
.I server
]
.SH Description
.NXR "nsquery command"
The
.PN nsquery
command provides an interface to obtain host
name and address information.
.PP
If you specify \fIhost\fR, the 
.PN nsquery
command obtains information about the specified host. If no host is
specified, the
.PN nsquery
command obtains information about the local host system.
.PP
If you specify \fIserver\fR, the
.PN nsquery
command queries the BIND server that you specify. If you do not specify
a server, the 
.PN nsquery
command queries the default BIND server.
.SH Options    
.IP lookup 8 
Retrieves the host name, Internet Protocol (IP) address, and aliases
of the specified host.
If no host or server is specified,
the
.PN nsquery
command obtains information about the local system
from the default BIND server.
.IP 
If you do specify the 
.B lookup
option, the 
.PN nsquery
command obtains the information about the BIND server and host
specified (or their defaults).
If the system from which you issue the
.PN nsquery
command is a BIND server,
and you do not specify the
.B lookup
option,
information about only that server is retrieved.
.SH Files
./" the list of files below is also mentioned in these ref pages:
./" nslookup(1), resolver(3), resolver(5), and named - the descriptions
./" of these files must be changed in those ref pages       (JM 10/31)
.TP 20
.PN /var/dss/namedb
Directory containing BIND server data file 
.TP 20
.PN /var/dss/namedb/named.boot	
BIND server boot file
.TP 20
.PN /var/dss/namedb/hosts.db
Host database file containing name to address mapping for BIND primary
server 
.TP 20
.PN /var/dss/namedb/hosts.rev
Host database file containing address to name mapping for BIND primary
server 
.TP 20
.PN /var/dss/namedb/named.local	
Local host database file containing address to name mapping for BIND
server 
.TP 20
.PN /var/dss/namedb/named.ca	
BIND server cache file
.TP 20
.PN /etc/resolv.conf	
BIND data file
.SH See Also
nslookup(1), resolver(3), resolver(5), named(8)
.br
\fIGuide to the BIND/Hesiod Service\fP
