.TH odump 1 RISC
.SH Name
odump \- dumps selected parts of an object file
.SH Syntax
.B odump
[ \fIoptions\fP ]
.IR file ...
.SH Description
The
.PN odump
command
dumps selected parts of each
object \fIfile\fP.  This command works for object files and
archives of object files.
.SH Options
The following options are available with the 
.PN odump
command:
.TP \w'\fB\-d~number~~'u
.B \-a
Dumps the archive header for each member of the specified archive file.
.TP
.B \-f
Dumps each file header.
.TP
.B \-g
Dumps the global symbols from the symbol table of a
RISC archive.
.TP
.B \-o
Dumps each optional header.
.TP
.B \-h
Dumps section headers.
.TP
.B \-i
Dumps the symbolic information header.
.TP
.B \-s
Dumps section contents.
.TP
.B \-r
Dumps relocation information.
.TP
.B \-l
Dumps line number information.
.TP
.B \-t
Dumps symbol table entries.
.TP
.BI \-z name
Dumps line number entries for the specified function \fIname\fR.
.TP
.BR \-c
Dumps the string table.
.TP
.BR \-L
Interpret and print the contents of the
.I .lib
sections.
.TP
.BR \-F
Dumps the file descriptor table.
.TP
.BR \-P
Dumps the procedure descriptor table.
.TP
.BR \-R
Dumps the relative file index table.
.PP
The 
.PN odump
command accepts these modifiers with the options:
.TP \w'\fB\-d~number~~'u
.BI \-d \|number
Dumps the section number or a range of sections starting at \fInumber\fP
and ending either at the last section number or the \fInumber\fR 
you specify with
.BR +d.
.TP
.BI +d \|number
Dumps sections in the range beginning with the
first section or beginning
with the section you specify with \fB\-d\fP.
.TP
.BI \-n \|name
Dumps information only about the specified \fIname\fR.
This
modifier
works with
.BR \-h ,
.BR \-s ,
.BR \-r ,
.BR \-l ,
and 
.BR \-t.
.TP
.BR \-p
Does not print headers
.TP
.BI \-t \|index
Dumps only the indexed symbol table entry. 
You can also specify a range of symbol table entries by using the modifier
.B \-t
with the 
.BR +t
option. 
.TP
.BI +t \|index
Dumps the symbol table entries in the specified range.   
The range begins at the first symbol table entry or at the entry
specified by
.B \-t.
The range ends with the specified indexed entry.
.TP
.B \-u
Underlines the name of the file for emphasis.
.TP
.B \-v
Dumps information symbolically rather than numerically (for example, 
.SM Static
rather than
.BR "\s-10X02\s+1 )".
You can use 
.B \-v
with all the options 
except
.B \-s.
.TP
.BI \-z \|name,number
Dumps the specified line number entry or a range of line numbers.  The
range starts at the
.I number
for the named function.
.TP
.BI \+z \|number
Dumps line numbers for a specified range.  The range 
starts at either the 
.IR name " or " number
specified 
by 
.BR \-z
The range ends with the 
.I number
specified by
.BR \+z .
.PP
Also, an option and its modifier can be separated by using 
blanks.
The name can be separated from the number that 
modifies
.B \-z
by replacing the comma with a blank.
.PP
The
.PN odump
command 
tries to format information in a helpful way,
printing information in character,
hexadecimal, octal, or decimal as appropriate.
.SH See Also
a.out(5), ar(5)
.tr ~~
