.TH pack 1
.SH Name
pack, pcat, unpack \- compress and expand files
.SH Syntax
.NXR "pack command"
.B pack
[ \fB\-\fR ]
[ \fB\-f\fR ]
\fIname\fR...
.PP
.B pcat
\fIname\fR...
.PP
.B unpack
.I name...
.SH Description
The
.PN pack
command stores the specified files in a compressed form.
Wherever possible (and useful), each input file
.I name
is replaced by a packed file
.I name.z
with the same access modes, access and modified dates, and
owner as those of
.I name.
The
.B \-f
option forces packing of
.I name.
Using this option you can cause an entire directory to be packed
even if some of the files cannot benefit from it.
If
.PN pack
is successful,
.I name
is removed.
Packed files
can be restored to their original form using
.PN unpack
or
.PN pcat .
.PP
The
.PN pack
command uses Huffman (minimum redundancy) codes on a byte-by-byte
basis.
If a hyphen (\-) is used as an argument,
an internal flag is set that causes the number of times each
byte is used, its relative frequency, and the code for the byte
to be printed on the standard output.
Additional occurrences of a hyphen (\-)
in place of
.I name
causes the internal flag to be set and reset.
.PP
The amount of compression obtained depends on the size of the
input file and the character frequency distribution.
Because a decoding
tree forms the first part of each .z file, it is usually not worthwhile
to pack files smaller than three blocks, unless the character frequency
distribution is skewed, which may occur with printer plots or pictures.
.PP
Typically, text files are reduced to 60-75% of their original size.
Load modules, which use a larger character set and have a more
uniform distribution of characters, show little compression.  The
packed versions are about 90% of the original size.
.PP
The
.PN pack
command returns a value that is the number of files that it failed to
compress.
.PP
No packing occurs if one of the following is true:
.IP \(bu 5
The file appears packed.
.IP \(bu
The file name exceeds 12 characters.
.IP \(bu
The file has links.
.IP \(bu
The file is a directory.
.IP \(bu
The file cannot be opened.
.IP \(bu
No disk storage blocks can be saved by packing.
.IP \(bu 
A file called
.PN name.z
already exists.
.IP \(bu
The .z
file cannot be created.
.IP \(bu 
An I/O error occurred during processing.
.PP
The last segment of the file name must not exceed 12
characters to allow space for the appended .z extension.
Directories cannot be compressed.
.PP
The
.PN pcat
command does for packed files what
.MS cat 1
does for ordinary files,
except that
.PN pcat
can not be used as a filter.
The specified files are unpacked and written to the standard output.
Thus, to view a packed file named name.z use:
.EX
pcat name.z
.EE
or just:
.EX
pcat name
.EE
To make an unpacked copy, say
.I nnn,
of a packed file named
.PN name.z
(without destroying name.z)
use the command:
.EX
pcat name >nnn
.EE
The
.PN pcat
command
returns the number of files it was unable to unpack.
Failure may occur if:
.PP
.RS
the file name (exclusive of the
.BR .z )
has more than 12 characters;
.br
the file cannot be opened;
.br
the file does not appear to be the output of
.I pack.
.RE
.PP
The
.PN unpack
command expands files created by
.PN pack .
For each file
.I name
specified in the command, a search is made for a file called name.z
(or just 
\fIname\fR,
if
.I name
ends in .z).
If this file appears to be a packed file, it is replaced by
its expanded version.
The new file has the .z
suffix stripped from its name, and has the same access modes,
access and modification dates, and owner as those of the packed file.
.PP
The
.PN unpack
command returns a value that is the number of files it was unable
to unpack.
Failure occurs for the same reasons that it occurs in
.PN pcat ,
as well as for the following:
.PP
.RS
a file with the unpacked name already exists;
.br
if the unpacked file cannot be created.
.PP
.RE
This command is present only for compatibility.  In general, the 
.MS compress 1
command runs faster and gives better compression.
.SH See Also
cat(1), compress(1)
