./" last edited by Kent Jackson 2/28/90
.TH passwd 1
.SH Name
passwd \- create or change password
.SH Syntax
.B passwd [\fB\-aefs\fP]
[\|\fIname\fR\|]
.SH Description
.NX R "passwd command"
.NX R "passwd command" "See also yppasswd command"
.NX R "password" "creating"
.NX R "password" "changing"
The
.PN passwd
command lets you or the superuser change your password. 
When you enter the 
.PN passwd
command, the program prompts you for the old password and then for the
new password.  Next, the program asks you for the new password again, to
verify that you have typed it correctly.  Note that the passwords are not
displayed on the screen.
.PP
Your new password must meet the length requirements specified by the
superuser.  To review these requirements, refer to the
.PN /etc/svc.conf
file. (This is a read-only file.)
.PP
If your system is running with increased security, you may have to 
choose a password from a list of randomly generated passwords, or you
may need 
authorization to change your password.  At higher security levels,
you may be prohibited from changing your password until its minimum
lifetime has expired, as specified in the Authorization
Database. 
.PP
If you are running the BIND/Hesiod service, your password will be 
updated automatically on the server.
.SH Options
.TP 5
.B \-a
Supply a list of randomly generated passwords.  (See the
Examples section.)
.TP 
.B \-e
Use an extended protocol when communicating with a prompter 
program.  As a result, the standard input and output (used by 
.PN login)
is sent to
this program.
.TP
.B \-f
Change the finger information, not the password. The finger
program provides information about current ULTRIX users, such as login
and terminal name, idle time and office location.  
.TP
.B \-s
Change the login shell of the password file, not the password entry. 
.SH Restrictions
If you use a hardcopy terminal, you must destroy all print outs of
valid passwords.
.SH Examples
The following example illustrates the 
.B \-a 
option, which displays a list of randomly generated passwords and their
suggested pronunciation with hyphens.  The hyphens delineate the
syllables of the passwords:
.br
.ne 5 
.EX 5
passwd \-a abcd
Changing password for abcd

Here are some suggested passwords:

ryegd           ryeg-di
aswurku         a-swurk-u
ryedok          ryed-ok
teleccs         tel-ec-cos
wahislas        wa-hi-slas

Enter new password:
.EE
.SH Diagnostics
.TP 5
.B "Password must be at least 6 characters long, password unchanged"
Your password does not meet the minimum
length requirement specified in 
.PN /etc/svc.conf .
.TP 5
.B "Warning: Only the first 8 characters of the password are significant"
Your password exceeds the maximum length requirement specified in
.PN /etc/svc.conf .
.TP
.B "Permission denied" 
You do not have the privilege to change your password. The minimum
lifetime has not expired.
.TP
.B "Password is not different enough, unchanged"
Your new password must be different from your old password.
.TP
.B "Password must be different than logname, and not resemble previous password"
Your new password must be different from your login name.
.TP
.B "Verification failed, password unchanged"
You misspelled the verification of your new password. 
.SH Files
.TP 20 
.PN /etc/passwd
Password file
.TP
.PN /etc/auth.dir
Authorization data base directory
.TP
.PN /etc/auth.pag
Authorization data base page
.TP
.PN /etc/svc.conf
Data base service selection and security configuration file
.NT
Only the superuser and members of the group
.PN authread
can access the 
.PN /etc/auth.dir
and
.PN /etc/auth.pag
files.
.NE
.SH See Also
chfn(1), chsh(1), finger(1), login(1), shexp(1), yppasswd(1yp), passwd(5yp), 
edauth(8), vipw(8)
.br 
\fIGuide to System Environment Setup\fP
.br
\fISecurity Guide for Users\fP
.br
\fISecurity Guide for Administrators\fP
.br
"Password Security: A Case History",
\fISupplementary Documents, Volume 3: System Manager\fP
