.TH pixie 1 RISC
.UC 4
.SH Name
pixie \- add profiling code to a program
.SH Syntax
.B pixie
in_prog_name [ options ]
.SH Description
The 
.B pixie
command reads an executable program, partitions it into basic blocks, and
writes an equivalent program containing additional code that
counts the execution of each basic block. A basic block is a region of
the program that can be entered only at the beginning and exited only at
the end.  The
.B pixie 
command also generates a file containing the address of each of the
basic blocks.
.PP
When you run the pixie-generated program, it (provided it terminates
normally or via a call to
.MS exit 2 )
generates a file containing the basic block counts. The name of the file
is that of the original program with any leading directory names removed
and ".Counts" appended.
.MS prof 1
and
.MS pixstats 1
can analyze these files and produce a listing of profiling data.
.SH Options
.TP 20
.B \-o \fIout_prog_name
Specify a name for the translation.  The default is to remove any leading
directory names from the in_prog_name and append ".pixie".
.TP 20
.B \-bbaddrs \fIname
Specify a name for the file of basic block addresses.  Default is to
remove any leading directory names from the in_prog_name and append
".Addrs".
.TP 20
.B \-[no]quiet
Controls whether a summary is given of the binary-to-binary
translation process. The default is
.B \-noquiet.
.TP 20
.B \-[no]dwops
Controls translation of double-word load/store instructions so that
binaries using these instructions can be run on old processors.
The default is
.B \-nodwops
(translate).
.TP 20
.B \-[no]textdata
Controls whether pixie puts the original text into the translated output.
This is required to correctly translate programs with data in the text
section (for example, f77 format statements in some compiler releases). 
The default is
.B \-textdata
(include original text).
.TP 20
.B \-[no]idtrace
Disables or enables tracing of instruction and data memory references.
.B \-idtrace
is equivalent to using both
.B \-itrace
and
.B \-dtrace
together.
The default is
.B \-noidtrace
.TP 20
.B \-[no]itrace
Disable or enable tracing of instruction memory references.
The default is
.B \-noitrace
.TP 20
.B \-[no]dtrace
Disable or enable tracing of data memory references.
Currently,
.B \-dtrace
requires
.BR \-itrace .
The default is
.B \-nodtrace
.TP 20
.B \-[no]oldtrace
Disable or enable the old memory reference trace format.
The default is
.BR \-oldtrace .
.TP 20
.B \-idtrace_sample \fInumber
Record only 1 out of every
.I number
memory reference chunks. (This feature not yet implemented.)
.TP 20
.B \-idtrace_file \fInumber
Specify a UNIX file descriptor number for the trace output file.
The default is 19.
.SH Restrictions
The handler function address to the signal system calls is not translated,
therefore, programs that receive signals  cannot work pixified.
.PP
Programs that call 
.B vfork 
cannot work pixified because the child process
modifies the parent state required for pixie operation.  Use 
.B fork
instead.
.PP
Pixified code is substantially larger than the original code.  Conditional
branches that used to fit in the 16-bit branch displacement field may no
longer fit, generating a pixie error.
.SH See Also
prof(1), pixstats(1)
