.\" SCCSID: @(#)prs.1	8.1	9/11/90
'\" t
.nr f 0
.bd S B 3
.de SP
.if n .ul
\%[\fB\-\\$1\fP\\c
.if n .ul 0
\\$2\\$3
..
.de SF
.if n .ul
\%[\fB\-\\$1\fP]
.if n .ul 0
..
.de AR
.if \\nf \{ \
.    RE
.    nr f 0 \}
.PP
.RS 5
.TP 15
\fB\-\\$1\\fP
\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7 \\$8 \\$9
.nr f 1
..
.de A1
.if \\nf \{ \
.    RE
.    nr f 0 \}
.PP
.RS 5
.TP 15
\fB\-\\$1\fP[\fI\\$2\^\fP]
\\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7 \\$8 \\$9
.nr f 1
..
.ds S)  \s-1SCCS\s+1
.ds I)  \s-1SID\s+1
.TH prs 1
.SH Name
prs \- display information from an SCCS file
.SH Syntax
.B prs
[\fB\-d\fR[\fIdataspec\fR]\|] [\fB\-r\fR[\fISID\fR]\|] 
[\fB\-e\fR] [\fB\-l\fR] [\fB\-a\fR] \fIfiles\fR 
.SH Description
.NXR "prs command (sccs)"
.NXR "SCCS file" "printing"
.NXAM "sccsfile" "SCCS file"
The
.PN prs
command prints on the standard output all or parts of an \*(S) file
in a user supplied format.
For further information, see 
.MS sccsfile 5 .
If a directory is named,
.PN prs
behaves as though each file in the directory were
specified as a named file,
except that non-\*(S) files
(last component of the path name does not begin with \fBs.\fP),
and unreadable files
are silently ignored.
If a name of \fB\-\fP is given, the standard input is read;
each line of the standard input is taken to be the name of an \*(S) file
or directory
to be processed;
non-\*(S) files and unreadable files are silently ignored.
.PP
Arguments to
.PN prs ,
which may appear in any order, consist of
keyletter arguments, and file names.
.SH Options
.NXR "prs command (sccs)" "options"
All the described
keyletter arguments apply independently to each named file:
.IP \fB\-a\fR 20
Displays printing of information for both removed
and existing deltas.
For example, removed delta type =
.IR R ,
and existing delta type =
.IR D .
For further information, see 
.MS rmdel 1 .
If the
.B \-a
keyletter is not specified,
information is provided only for existing deltas. 
.IP \fB\-d\fR[\fIdataspec\fR] 20
Displays information specified by 
.I dataspec.  
The
.I dataspec\^
is a string consisting of \*(S) file
.I "data keywords\^"
(see
.BR "\s-1DATA KEYWORDS\s+1" )
interspersed with optional user-supplied text.
.IP \fB\-e\fR 20
Displays information for all deltas created
earlier than and including the delta designated by the
.B \-r
keyletter.
.IP \fB\-l\fR 20
Displays information for all deltas created
later than and including the delta designated by the
.B \-r
keyletter.
.IP \fB\-r\fR[\fISID\fR] 20
Indicates delta version number.  
If no \*(I) is specified, the \*(I) of the most recently created delta
is assumed.
.PP
.i0
.SH Data Keywords
.NXR "SCCS file" "data keywords"
Data keywords
specify which parts of an \*(S) file are to be retrieved and 
printed on the standard output.
All parts of an \*(S) file 
have an associated data keyword.
For further information, see 
.MS sccsfile 5 .
There is no limit on the number of times a data keyword
may appear in a
.IR dataspec .
.PP
The information printed by
.PN prs\^
consists of
the user supplied text and
the appropriate values (extracted from the \*(S) file)
substituted for the recognized data keywords
in the order of appearance in the \fIdataspec\^\fP.
The format of a data keyword value is either
.I Simple\^
(S), in which
keyword substitution is direct, or
.I "Multi-line\^"
(M), in which keyword substitution is followed
by a carriage return.
.PP
User supplied text
is any text other than
recognized data keywords.
A tab is specified
by \fB\et\fP and carriage return/new-line is specified by \fB\en\fP.
.in 0
.if t .ps \-1
.if t .vs \-1p
.ps 9
.TS
center;
c s s s s
cI lI cI cI cI
a1 l1 c1 c1 a.
Table 1. \s-1SCCS\s+1 Files Data Keywords
.sp .5
Keyword	Data Item	File Section	Value	Format
:Dt:	Delta Information	Delta Table	See below*	S
.T&
a l a c a.
:DL:	Delta line statistics	"	:Li:/:Ld:/:Lu:	S
:Li:	Lines inserted by Delta	"	nnnnn	S
:Ld:	Lines deleted by Delta	"	nnnnn	S
:Lu:	Lines unchanged by Delta	"	nnnnn	S
:DT:	Delta type	"	\fID\fR or \fIR\fR	S
:I:	SCCS ID string (SID)	"	:R:.:L:.:B:.:S:	S
:R:	Release number	"	nnnn	S
:L:	Level number	"	nnnn	S
:B:	Branch number	"	nnnn	S
:S:	Sequence number	"	nnnn	S
:D:	Date Delta created	"	:Dy:/:Dm:/:Dd:	S
:Dy:	Year Delta created	"	nn	S
:Dm:	Month Delta created	"	nn	S
:Dd:	Day Delta created	"	nn	S
:T:	Time Delta created	"	:Th:::Tm:::Ts:	S
:Th:	Hour Delta created	"	nn	S
:Tm:	Minutes Delta created	"	nn	S
:Ts:	Seconds Delta created	"	nn	S
:P:	Programmer who created Delta	"	logname	S
:DS:	Delta sequence number	"	nnnn	S
:DP:	Predecessor Delta seq-no.	"	nnnn	S
:DI:	Seq-no. of deltas incl., excl., ignored	"	:Dn:/:Dx:/:Dg:	S
:Dn:	Deltas included (seq #)	"	:DS: :DS:...	S
:Dx:	Deltas excluded (seq #)	"	:DS: :DS:...	S
:Dg:	Deltas ignored (seq #)	"	:DS: :DS:...	S
:MR:	MR numbers for delta	"	text	M
:C:	Comments for delta	"	text	M
.T&
a l c c a.
:UN:	User names	User names	text	M
:FL:	Flag list	Flags	text	M
.T&
a l a c a.
:Y:	Module type flag	"	text	S
:MF:	MR validation flag	"	\fIyes\fR or \fIno\fR	S
:MP:	MR validation pgm name	"	text	S
:KF:	Keyword error/warning flag	"	\fIyes\fR or \fIno\fR	S
:KV:	Keyword validation string	"	text	S
:BF:	Branch flag	"	\fIyes\fR or \fIno\fR	S
:J:	Joint edit flag	"	\fIyes\fR or \fIno\fR	S
:LK:	Locked releases	"	:R:...	S
:Q:	User-defined keyword	"	text	S
:M:	Module name	"	text	S
:FB:	Floor boundary	"	:R:	S
:CB:	Ceiling boundary	"	:R:	S
:Ds:	Default SID	"	:I:	S
:ND:	Null delta flag	"	\fIyes\fR or \fIno\fR	S
.T&
a l c c a.
:FD:	File descriptive text	Comments	text	M
:BD:	Body	Body	text	M
.T&
a l a c a.
:GB:	Gotten body	"	text	M
.T&
a l a c a.
:W:	A form of \fIwhat\fR (1) string	N/A	:Z::M::I:	S
:A:	A form of \fIwhat\fR (1) string	N/A	:Z::Y: :M: :I::Z:	S
:Z:	\fIwhat\fR (1) string delimiter	N/A	@(#)	S
:F:	SCCS file name	N/A	text	S
:PN:	SCCS file path name	N/A	text	S
.TE
.PP
.in +3
*:Dt: = :Dt: :I: :D: :T: :P: :DS: :DP:
.ps 10
.SH Examples
.NXR(e) "prs command"
The following is an example of a 
.PN prs 
command line and what it produces on
the standard output:
.EX
prs \-d"Users and/or user \s-1ID\s+1s for \fB:\fPF\fB:\fP are\fB:\fP\en\fB:\fP\s-1UN\s+1\fB:\fP" s\fB.\fPfile
.PP
.RS
.nf
Users and/or user \s-1ID\s+1s for s\fB.\fPfile are\fB:\fP
xyz
131
abc
.fi
.RE
.EE
.PP
This is another example and its output.
.EX
prs \-d"Newest delta for pgm \fB:\fPM\fB:\fP\fB:\fP \fB:\fPI\fB:\fP Created \fB:\fPD\fB:\fP By \fB:\fPP\fB:\fP" \-r s\fB.\fPfile
.PP
.IP
Newest delta for pgm main\fB.\fPc\fB:\fP 3\fB.\fP7 Created 77/12/1 By case
.EE
.PP
This is an example of a \fIspecial case:\^\fP
.EX
prs s\fB.\fPfile
.EE
.PP
This is what it may produce on the standard output:
.PP
.RS
D 1\fB.\fP1 77/12/1 00\fB:\fP00\fB:\fP00 cas 1 000000/00000/00000
\s-1MR\s+1s\fB:\fP
bl78-12345
bl79-54321
\s-1COMMENTS\s+1\fB:\fP
this is the comment line for s\fB.\fPfile initial delta
for each delta table entry of the ``D'' type.
The only keyletter argument allowed to be used with the
.I "special case"
is the
.B \-a
keyletter.
.RE
.SH Diagnostics
See
.PN sccshelp(1)
for explanations.
.SH Files
.RE
.TP 10
/tmp/pr?????
.i0
.SH See Also
admin(1), delta(1), get(1), help(1), sccs(1), sccsfile(5)
.br
\fIGuide to the Source Code Control System\fP
