.TH rcvstore 1mh
.SH Name
rcvstore \- incorporate new mail asynchronously
.SH Syntax
.B rcvstore
[
.I +folder 
] [
.B "\-[no]create"
] [
.B \-help
] [
.B "\-sequence \fIname\fB"
] [
.B \-[no]public
] [
.B \-[no]zero
]
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Description
.NXR "rcvstore command"
.PP
The command
.PN rcvstore
incorporates a message from the standard input
into an MH folder.
If a 
.I +folder
argument is not given
the file is placed in your
.PN +inbox 
folder.
The new message being incorporated is assigned the next highest
number in the folder.
.PP
If the specified (or default) folder does not exist,
it is created if the
.B \-create
option is specified;
otherwise 
.PN rcvstore
exits.
.PP
If your 
.PN \&.mh_profile 
file contains a 
\f(CWMsg-Protect:\fR entry, 
it is used as the protection on the newly created messages;
otherwise the MH default of 0600 is used.  
During all operations on messages,
this initially assigned protection 
is preserved for each message.
You can use
.PN chmod
to change the protection on an individual message, 
and the new protection is preserved thereafter.
.PP
The
.PN rcvstore
command incorporates anything except zero length messages
into your MH folder.
.PP
If the profile entry \f(CWUnseen-Sequence:\fR 
is present and non-empty, then 
.PN rcvstore
adds the newly incorporated message to each
sequence named by the profile entry.
Note that 
.PN rcvstore
does not zero each sequence prior to adding messages.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Options
.IP "\-create" 10
.PD 0
.IP "\-nocreate" 10
.PD
Creates the specified folder.
If you attempt to incorporate mail into a folder
that does not exist, 
.PN rcvstore 
creates the folder if you supply the
.B \-create 
option.
If you supply the 
.B \-nocreate
option, the folder is not created and
.PN rcvstore 
exits.
The default is
.BR \-create .
.\"
.IP "\-help" 10
Prints a list of the valid options to this command.
.\"
.IP "\-public" 10
.PD 0
.IP "\-nopublic" 10
.PD
Sets the read permissions of sequences.
Normally, when you create a sequence with the
.B \-sequence
option, the sequence is not accessible
to other MH users.
The
.B \-public
option makes the sequence accessible to other MH users.
You can use the
.B \-nopublic
option to ensure that the sequence that you create
is only accessible to yourself.
.\"
.IP "\-sequence \fIname\fB" 10
Specifies a sequence in which
.PN rcvstore
places the messages which it incorporates.
For more information on sequences, see
.MS mark 1mh .
The name of the sequence must begin with a letter,
and must consist entirely of alphabetic or numeric characters;
no punctuation is allowed.
.\"
.IP "\-zero" 10
.PD 0
.IP "\-nozero" 10
.PD
Specifies whether to zero existing sequences
before adding new messages.
Normally,
.PN rcvstore
removes all existing messages from a sequence before
adding messages to it.
If you specify the
.B \-nozero
option,
.PN rcvstore
adds the messages it finds to the existing contents
of the sequence.
This option only works with the
.B \-sequence
option.
.\"
.PP
The defaults for this command are:
.IP
.I +folder
defaults to 
.PN +inbox
.br
.B \-create
.br
.B \-nopublic
if the folder is read-only, 
otherwise
.B \-public
.br
.B \-nozero
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Profile Components
.TS
tab(+);
l l.
Path:+To determine your Mail directory
Folder-Protect:+To set protections when creating a new folder
Msg-Protect:+To set protections when creating a new message
Unseen-Sequence:+To name sequences denoting unseen messages
.TE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Files
.TP 10
.PN $HOME/.mh_profile
The user profile.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH See Also
chmod(1), inc(1mh), mark(1mh), pick(1mh), mh-mail(5mh), mh_profile(5mh)
