.\" SCCSID: @(#)refer.1	8.2	10/24/90
.TH refer 1
.SH Name
refer \- find and format bibliographic references 
.SH Syntax
.B refer
[\fB\-a\fR] [\fB\-b\fR] [\fB\-c\fR] [\fB\-e\fR] [\fB\-f\fIn\fR\|] 
[\fB\-k\fIx\fR\|] [\fB\-l\fIm,n\fR\|] [\fB\-n\fR] [\fB\-p\fI bib\fR\|] 
[\fB\-s\fIkeys\fR\|] [\fB\-B\fIl.m\fR\|] [\fB\-P\fR] [\fB\-S\fR] 
[\|\fIfile...\fR\|]
.SH Description
.NXR "refer preprocessor"
.NXR "bibliography" "searching"
.NXR "refer preprocessor" "addbib program"
.NXR "refer preprocessor" "sortbib command"
.NXR "refer preprocessor" "roffbib text processor"
.NXR "refer preprocessor" "lookbib command"
.NXR "nroff text processor" "refer preprocessor"
.NXR "footnote" "formatting"
.NXR "endnote" "formatting"
The
.PN refer
command
is a preprocessor for
.PN *roff
that finds and formats references for footnotes or endnotes.
It is also the base for a series of programs designed to
index, search, sort, and print stand-alone bibliographies,
or other data entered in the appropriate form.
.PP
Given an incomplete citation with sufficiently precise keywords,
.PN refer
will search a bibliographic database for references
containing these keywords anywhere in the title, author, journal, and
so forth.
The input file (or standard input)
is copied to standard output,
except for lines between .[ and .] delimiters,
which are assumed to contain keywords,
and are replaced by information from the bibliographic database.
The user may also search different databases,
override particular fields, or add new fields.
The reference data, from whatever source, are assigned to a set of
.PN *roff
strings.
Macro packages such as
.MS ms 7
print the finished reference text from these strings.
By default references are flagged by footnote numbers.
.SH Options
.NXR "refer preprocessor" "options"
The following options are available:
.IP \fB\-a\fIr\fR 12
Reverses order of first
author names. For example, Jones, J. A. instead of J. A. Jones.
If
.I n
is omitted all author names are reversed.
.IP \fB\-B\fIl.m\fR 
Bibliography mode.
Take a file composed of records separated by blank lines,
and turn them into
.B *roff
input.
Label
.I l
is turned into the macro
.I \&.m
with
.I l
defaulting to
.B %X
and
.I \&.m
defaulting to
.B \&.AP
(annotation paragraph).
.IP \fB\-b\fR 
Creates bare entries:  no flags, numbers, or labels.  
.IP \fB\-c\fIkeys\fR 
Capitalizes fields whose key letters are in string.  
.IP \fB\-e\fR 
Accumulates all references in one list.  
Default is to create references where encountered in text.  
Accumulate them until a sequence of the form
.EX
  .[
  $LIST$
  .]
.EE
.br
is encountered, and then write out all references collected so far.
.IP \fB\-f\fIn\fR 
Set the footnote number to
.I n
instead of the default of 1 (one).
With labels rather than numbers,
this flag is a no-op.
.IP \fB\-k\fIx\fR 
Uses specified label in place of numbering for each reference data 
line beginning %
.I x
:.  By default 
.I x
is 
.B L.
.IP \fB\-l\fIm,n\fR 
Instead of numbering references, use labels made from
the senior author's last name and the year of publication.
Only the first
.I m
letters of the last name
and the last
.I n
digits of the date are used.
If either
.I m
or
.I n
is omitted the entire name or date respectively is used.
.IP \fB\-P\fR 
Places punctuation marks .,:;?! after the reference signal,
rather than before.
(Periods and commas used to be done with strings.)
.IP \fB\-n\fR 
Do not search the default file /usr/dict/papers/Ind.
If there is a REFER environment variable,
the specified file is searched instead of the default file;
in this case the
.B \-n
flag has no effect.
.IP \fB\-p\fIbib\fR 
Specifies file to be searched before
.PN /usr/dict/papers.  
.IP \fB\-S\fR 
Produce references in the Natural or Social Science format.
.IP \fB\-s\fIkeys\fR 
Uses specified key in sorting references.  
Implies
.BR \-e .
The key-letters in
.I keys
may be followed by a number to indicate how many such fields
are used, with
.B +
taken as a very large number.
The default is
.B AD
which sorts on the senior author and then date; to sort, for example,
on all authors and then title use
.BR \-sA+T .
.PP
To use your own references,
put them in the format described below.
They can be searched more rapidly by running
.MS indxbib 1
on them before using
.PN refer .
Failure to index results in a linear search.
When
.PN refer
is used with the
.PN eqn ,
.PN neqn
or
.PN tbl
preprocessors
.PN refer
should be first, to minimize the volume
of data passed through pipes.
.PP
The
.PN refer
preprocessor and associated programs
expect input from a file of references
composed of records separated by blank lines.
A record is a set of lines (fields),
each containing one kind of information.
Fields start on a line beginning with a ``%'',
followed by a key-letter, then a blank,
and finally the contents of the field,
and continue until the next line starting with ``%''.
The output ordering and formatting of fields
is controlled by the macros specified for
.PN *roff
(for footnotes and endnotes) or
.PN roffbib
(for stand-alone bibliographies).
For a list of the most common key-letters
and their corresponding fields, see
.MS addbib 1 .
An example of a
.PN refer
entry is given below.
.SH Restrictions
.NXR "refer preprocessor" "restricted"
Blank spaces at the end of lines in bibliography fields
will cause the records to sort and reverse incorrectly.
Sorting large numbers of references causes a core dump.
.SH Examples
.EX
%A   M. E. Lesk
%T   Some Applications of Inverted Indexes on the \s-1UNIX\s0 System
%B   UNIX Programmer's Manual  \"TITLE_EXEMPT\"
%V   2b
%I   Bell Laboratories
%C   Murray Hill, NJ
%D   1978
.EE
.SH Files
.TP 20
.PN /usr/dict/papers
directory of default publication lists
.TP
.PN /usr/lib/refer  
directory of companion programs
.SH See Also
addbib(1), sortbib(1), roffbib(1), indxbib(1), lookbib(1)
