.\" SCCSID: @(#)rmdel.1	8.1	9/11/90
.TH rmdel 1
.SH Name
rmdel \- remove a delta from an SCCS file
.SH Syntax
.B rmdel
\fB\-r\fI\SID\fR \fIfiles\fR
.SH Description
.NXR "rmdel command (sccs)"
.NXR "SCCS file" "removing delta"
.NXAM "file" "sccsfile" "rmdel command (sccs)"
The
.PN rmdel
command 
removes the delta specified by the
.SM \fISID\fP
from each
named \s-1SCCS\s+1 file.
The delta to be removed must be the most recent delta
in its branch in the delta chain of each
named \s-1SCCS\s+1 file.
In addition,
the \*(I) specified delta must
not be that of a version being edited for the purpose of
making a delta, for example,  
if a
.I p-file\^
exists for the named \s-1SCCS\s+1 file,
the \*(I) specified delta must not
appear in any entry of the
.I p-file\c\^
).
For further information, see 
.MS get 1 .
.PP
If a directory is named,
.PN rmdel
behaves as though each file in the directory were
specified as a named file,
except that non-\s-1SCCS\s+1 files
(last component of the path name does not begin with \fBs.\fR)
and unreadable files
are silently ignored.
If \- is given as the name, the standard input is read and
each line of the standard input is taken to be the name of an \s-1SCCS\s+1 file
to be processed.
Non-\s-1SCCS\s+1 files and unreadable files are silently ignored.
.PP
Certain permissions are necessary to remove a delta.
If you make a delta or own the file and directory, you can remove it. 
.SH Options
.IP \fB\-r\fISID\fR 8
Specifies the delta version number.
.SH Diagnostics
Use
.MS sccshelp 1
for explanations.
.SH Files
.PD 0
.TP 8
x-file
For further information, see 
.MS delta 1 .
.TP 
z-file
For further information see 
.MS delta 1 .
.PD
.SH See Also
delta(1), get(1), help(1), prs(1), sccs(1), sccsfile(5)
.br
\fIGuide to the Source Code Control System\fP
