.TH rmf 1mh
.SH Name
rmf \- remove folder
.SH Syntax
.B rmf 
[
.I +folder
] [
.B \-help
] [
.B \-[no]interactive
]
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Description
.NXR "rmf command"
.NXR "folders" "removing"
The 
.PN rmf
command removes all of the messages within the current folder,
and then removes the folder itself.  
If there are any files within the folder which are not part of MH,
they are not removed, and an error message is displayed.
.PP
You can specify a folder other than the current folder 
by using the 
.I +folder
argument.  
If you do not specify a folder, and
.PN rmf
cannot find the current folder,
.PN rmf
asks you whether you want to delete
.PN +inbox
instead.
.PP
If the current folder is removed,
it makes 
.PN +inbox
current.
.PP
Note that the 
.PN rmf
command irreversibly deletes messages that do not have other links,
so use it with caution.
.PP
If the folder being removed is a sub-folder, 
the parent folder becomes the new current folder, and 
.PN rmf
tells you that this has happened.
This provides an easy mechanism for selecting a set of messages,
operating on the list, then removing the list and returning to
the current folder from which the list was extracted.
.PP
Using 
.PN rmf
to delete a read-only folder deletes the private sequence 
and current message information from the 
.PN \&.mh_profile
file, without affecting the folder itself.
If you have sub-folders within a folder,
you must delete all the sub-folders 
before you can delete the folder itself.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Options
.IP \-help 10
Prints a list of the valid options to this command.
.\"
.IP \-interactive 10
.PD 0
.IP \-nointeractive 10
.PD
Asks for confirmation before deleting a folder.
By default, 
.PN rmf
deletes a folder and its messages 
without asking for confirmation.
If you specify the 
.B \-interactive 
option, 
.PN rmf 
asks if you are sure before deleting the folder.
You are advised to use this option, since when
.PN rmf 
deletes a folder its contents are lost irretrievably.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Examples
This example shows how 
.PN rmf
asks for confirmation when the 
.B \-interactive 
option is used:
.EX
% \f(CBrmf -interactive +test\f(CW
Remove folder "test"? \f(CBy\f(CW
.EE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Profile Components
.TS
tab(+);
l l.
Path:+To determine the user's Mail directory
.TE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Files
.TP 10
.PN $HOME/\&.mh_profile
The user profile.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH See Also
rmm(1mh)
