.\" SCCSID: @(#)rsh.1c	8.2	3/6/91
.TH rsh 1c
.SH Name
rsh \- remote shell
.SH Syntax
.B rsh
.I host
[\fB\-l\fI username\fR\|] [\fB\-n\fR] \fIcommand\fR
.br
.I host
[\fB\-l\fI username\fR\|] [\fB\-n\fR] \fIcommand\fR
.SH Description
.NXR "rsh program"
.NXA "rsh program" "rlogin command"
.NXAM "rsh program" "rshd server"
The
.PN rsh
command connects to the specified
.I host,
and executes the specified \fIcommand\fR.
The
.PN rsh
command
copies its standard input to the remote command, the standard
output of the remote command to its standard output, and the
standard error of the remote command to its standard error.
Interrupt, quit and terminate signals are propagated to the remote
command.  The 
.PN rsh
command normally terminates when the remote command does.
.PP
The remote username used is the same as your local username,
unless you specify a different remote name with the
.B \-l
option.
This remote name must be equivalent, in the sense of
.MS rlogin 1c ,
to the originating account.  No provision
is made for specifying a password with a command.
.PP
If you omit
.I command,
then instead of executing a single command, you are logged in
on the remote host using 
.MS rlogin 1c .
.PP
Shell metacharacters which are not quoted are interpreted
on local machine, while quoted metacharacters are interpreted on
the remote machine.
Thus the command
.PP
\ \ \ rsh otherhost cat remotefile >> localfile
.PP
appends the remote file
.I remotefile
to the localfile
.I localfile,
while
.PP
\ \ \ rsh otherhost cat remotefile ">>" otherremotefile
.PP
appends
.I remotefile
to
.I otherremotefile.
.PP
Host names are given in the file 
.PN /etc/hosts .
Each host
has one standard name (the first name given in the file), which
is rather long and unambiguous, and optionally one or more nicknames.
The host names for local machines are also commands in the directory
.PN /usr/hosts .
If you put this directory in your search path
then the
.PN rsh
can be omitted.
.SH Options
.NXR "rsh program" "options"
.IP "\fB\-\|l\fI username\fR" 20
Logs you in as the specified user, not as your user login name.
.IP \fB\-n\fR 20
Redirects all command input to
.PN /dev/null .
.SH Restrictions
.NXR "rsh program" "restricted"
The
.PN rsh
command is confused by output generated by commands in a \&.cshrc 
file on the remote host.
In particular, `where are you?' and `stty: Can't assign requested address' 
are messages which can result if output is generated by the startup file.
.PP
If you are using 
.MS csh 1
and put a 
.MS rsh 1c
in the background without redirecting its input
away from the terminal, it blocks even if no reads
are posted by the remote command.  If no input is desired
you should redirect the input of
.PN rsh
to 
.PN /dev/null
using the
.B \-n
option.
.PP
You cannot run an interactive command
like 
.MS vi 1 .
Use 
.MS rlogin 1c .
.PP
Stop signals stop the local 
.PN rsh
process only.
.SH Files
.ta 2i
/etc/hosts
.br
/usr/hosts/*
.DT
.SH See Also
rlogin(1c)
