.TH scan 1mh
.SH Name
scan \- produce a one-line-per-message scan listing
.SH Syntax
.B scan
[
.I +folder
] [
.I msgs
] [
.I options
]
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Description
.NXR "scan command"
.PP
The 
.PN scan
command produces a one-line-per-message listing 
of the messages in the current folder.  
.PP
You can scan a folder other than the current folder by using the 
.I +folder
argument. 
You can use the 
.I msgs
argument to produce a scan listing of a number of messages 
or a range of messages in the specified folder.  
You can also use
.PN scan
in conjunction with a message sequence defined by
.PN mark
or 
.PN pick .
See
.MS mark 1mh 
for more information on sequences.
.PP
Each 
.PN scan
line contains the message number, the date, 
the \f(CWFrom:\fR field, the \f(CWSubject:\fR field, 
and, if room allows, some of the body of the message.
The current message is marked with a plus sign (\f(CW+\fR).
.PP
The
.PN scan
command actually reads each of the specified messages 
and parses them to extract the desired fields.
If format errors are found in any of the messages during parsing, 
.PN scan
produces appropriate error messages.
.PP
Because MH has been configured with the BERK option,
.PN scan
has two additional options:
.B \-reverse
and
.BR \-noreverse .
In addition,
.PN scan
updates the MH context prior to starting the listing,
so interrupting a long 
.PN scan
listing preserves the new context.  
The default configuration file that is
supplied with MH has the BERK option enabled.  
.PP
If 
.PN scan
encounters a message without a \f(CWDate:\fR field,
the date is filled in with the last write date of the message,
and an asterisk (\f(CW*\fR) is appended.
This is useful for identifying unsent message drafts.
Unsent drafts are not usually allowed to contain a \f(CWDate:\fR field,
and are consequently marked with an asterisk in 
.PN scan 
listings.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Options
.IP "\-clear" 10
.PD 0
.IP "\-noclear" 10
.PD
Directs 
.PN scan 
to clear the screen.
If the 
.B \-clear
switch is used and the output of
.PN scan
is directed to a terminal, then 
.PN scan
consults the \f(CW$TERM\fR and \f(CW$TERMCAP\fR
environmental variables to determine your terminal type 
in order to find out how to clear the screen prior to exiting.
If the 
.B \-clear
switch is used and the output of
.PN scan
is not directed to a terminal, then 
.PN scan
sends a formfeed prior to exiting.
.\"
.IP "\-form \fIformatfile\fB" 10
Re-formats the output of 
.PN scan 
according to the instructions in the named file.
The named
.I formatfile
must be in
.PN mh-format
style; see 
.MS mh-format 5mh
for more details.
.\"
.IP "\-format \fIstring\fB" 10
Re-formats the output of
.PN scan
according to the instructions in the string given.
The string must be in 
.PN mh-format
style; see
.MS mh-format 5mh
for more details.
You must place the 
.I string
argument to this command in double quotes (").
.\"
.IP "\-header" 10
.PD 0
.IP "\-noheader" 10
.PD
Produces a header line prior to the 
.PN scan
listing.  
The header line displays the name of the folder 
and the date and time. 
This can be suppressed using the
.B \-noheader
option.
.\"
.IP "\-help" 10
Prints a list of the valid options to this command.
.\"
.IP "\-reverse" 10
.PD 0
.IP "\-noreverse" 10
.PD
Lists the output from 
.PN scan
in reverse order, from the highest message number
to the lowest.
The 
.B \-noreverse
option lists messages in the conventional way,
from lowest to highest numbers.
The 
.B \-noreverse
option is the default.
.\"
.IP "\-width \fIcolumns\fB" 10
Specifies the width of your screen, in columns.
.\"
.PP
The defaults for this command are as follows:
.IP
.I +folder
defaults to the current folder
.br
.I msgs
defaults to all
.br
.\" ***Commented out
.ig
.B \-format
defaults to 
.PN ***???***
.br 
(***WHAT IS THE DEFAULT FORMAT FILE FOR scan???***)
.br
..
.\" ***End of comments
.B \-noheader
.br
.B \-width
defaults to the width of the terminal
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Examples
The following example produces a listing 
of messages 11 through 15 in the folder 
.PN +inbox :
.EX
% \f(CBscan +inbox 11-15\f(CW
  11  18/01 ralph              Project Plan Meeting Monday<<This
  12 -21/01 johnson            squash<<Thought i might postpone 
  13  21/01 smith@ultrixhost   support from US during conversion
  14  21/01 jjones@subone.dne  new forum for discussion of mail
  15+ 21/01 calvin@hobbes.uuc  Re: new forum for discussion of m
.EE
In this listing, the plus sign (\f(CW+\fR)
on message 15 indicates that it is the current message.
The hyphen (\f(CW-\fR) on message 12 indicates that you
have replied to the message.
It is produced by the
.B \-annotate 
option to 
.PN repl ;
see
.MS repl 1mh
for more information.
If there is sufficient room left on the line after the subject, 
.PN scan
fills the line with text from the body, preceded by \f(CW<<\fR,
and terminated by \f(CW>>\fR if the body is sufficiently short.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Profile Components
.TS
tab(+);
lw(1.5i) l.
Path:+To determine your Mail directory
Alternate-Mailboxes:+To determine your mailboxes
.TE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Files
.TP 10
.PN $HOME/.mh_profile
The user profile.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH See Also
inc(1mh), mark(1mh), pick(1mh), show(1mh), mh-format(5mh)
