.\" SCCSID: @(#)sccs.1	8.1	9/11/90
.TH sccs 1
.SH Name
sccs \- Source Code Control System 
.SH Syntax
\fBsccs  [\fIflags\fR] \fIcommand\fR [\|\fIcommand-option\fR\|] [\|\fIfile\fR\|] [\|sccs\|]
.SH Description
.NXA "sccs preprocessor" "get command (sccs)"
.NXA "sccs preprocessor" "SCCS file"
.NXS "source code control system preprocessor" "sccs preprocessor"
.NXR "sccs preprocessor"
.NXR "SCCS file" "recording changes"
.NXA "file" "\fIspecific files\fP
SCCS is a source management system which
maintains records of changes made in files
within that system.  Records stating what the
changes were, why and when they were made,   
and who made them are kept for each version.
Previous versions can be recovered,
and different versions can be maintained
simultaneously.  
SCCS also insures that two people are not editing
the same file at the same time.
.PP
The SCCS
system has two levels of operation,
a preprocessor called 
.PN sccs 
and the traditional SCCS commands.  
The preprocessor 
.MS sccs 1
provides an interface with the
more traditional SCCS commands, such as
.B get, delta,
and so forth.  The 
.MS sccs 1
interface is a more 
user-friendly environment
for the SCCS
user.  Some of the commands are more intuitive, such as 
.B sccs edit
rather than the traditional
.B get \-e
to retrieve a file for editing. 
Some commands perform multiple operations, such as   
.B sccs delget
which performs a 
.B delta
on the file, and then
.B get
the changed file back.
.PP
The 
.MS sccs 1
preprocessor
also restructures the method in which SCCS
files are stored and manipulated.  In the traditional
version of SCCS,
files (s-files, p-files, and so forth) are stored in the
directory that contains the g-files, unless an SCCS
directory is explicitly defined with 
each command.  The 
.MS sccs 1
preprocessor expects that an SCCS directory 
is available within the directory that contains the g-files
and that this directory also contains the SCCS 
files.  The SCCS
directory is owned by 
.PN sccs, 
providing an
additional level of security.  This method also
cleans up the directory where the g-files are
stored.  One other important difference in using the
preprocessor is that the file specification is the name of the
g-file rather than the name of the s-file when invoking an
SCCS command. If SCCS
is specified rather than the file name, the SCCS 
preprocessor handles this in the same
manner as the traditional commands handle it.  Each
s-file in the directory SCCS 
is acted upon as if explicitly named.  Please
note that not all 
.MS sccs 1
preprocessor commands permit this feature.
.PP
The traditional SCCS
commands are also included for reference in SEE ALSO.
If the 
.MS sccs 1
preprocessor is used, small discrepancies may
exist due to conflicts between the command parameters
and the 
.MS sccs 1
preprocessor parameters.  
.PP
SCCS stores all versions of each file along with the
logged data about each version in the s-file.
Three major operations can be performed  
on the s-file.
.PP
To retrieve a file for reading or printing 
use the following command:
.EX
sccs get [filename][sccs]
.EE
The latest version is retrieved and is NOT intended for edit. 
.PP
To retrieve a file for edit use the following command:
.EX
sccs edit [filename][sccs]
.EE
The latest version is retrieved and only one person can 
edit a given file at one time.
.PP 
To merge a file back into the s-file use the following command:
.EX
sccs delta [filename][sccs]
.EE
This is a companion operation to the edit command (Step 2).
A new version number is assigned. Comments explaining
the changes are saved. 
.PP 
A 
.B delta
consists of the changes made to a file, not the file itself. 
.NXR "delta" "defined"
All deltas to a given file are stored,  
enabling you to get a version of the file that has selected
deltas removed which gives you the option of removing
your selected changes later. 
.PP
An SID is an identification number for a delta.  
.NXR "SID" "defined"
It consists of
two parts, a release number and a level number.  The release number
normally remains constant but can be changed when major changes
in the file are made.  The level numbers represent each 
delta for a given file.  A SID can also be used to represent a 
version number of the entire file.
.PP
To create all the source files in a given directory in SCCS 
format, run the following shell script from csh:
.EX
mkdir SCCS save
chown sccs SCCS
foreach i (*.[.ch])
        sccs admin \-i$i $i
        mv $i save/$i
end
.EE
Note that to run the 
.PN chown
command, you must be the superuser.
However,
the 
\fIGuide to the Source Code Control System\fP
describes a method for setting up SCCS files that makes
superuser privileges unnecessary.
.PP
To create a single source file in SCCS format, assuming the 
presence of the SCCS directory, use the following command:
.NXR(e) "file" "converting to sccs format"
.EX
sccs create <filename>
.EE
Because the number and types of commands used within SCCS are many 
and complex, the following quick reference table is included here.
See the 
\fIGuide to the Source Code Control System\fP
for further explanations of commands.
.SH Flags
.IP \-d<dir> 15
The <dir> represents a directory to search
out of.  It should be a full pathname
for general usage.  For example, if <dir> is
.PN /usr/src/sys ,
then a reference to the
file 
.PN dev/bio.c
becomes a reference to
.PN /usr/src/sys/dev/bio.c .
.IP \-p<path>
Prepends <path> to the final component
of the pathname.  By default, this is
SCCS.  For example, in the 
.B \-d
example above, the path then gets modified to
.PN /usr/src/sys/dev/SCCS/s.bio.c .
In more common usage (without the \-d flag),
.PN prog.c
would get modified to
.PN SCCS/s.prog.c .
In both cases, the
.PN s .
gets automatically prepended.
.IP \-r
Run as the real user.
.SH Commands 
.NXR "sccs preprocessor" "command list"
These commands should all be preceded by 
.PN sccs .
.IP get 15
.NXR "get command (sccs)"
Gets files for compilation (not for editing).
Id keywords are expanded.
.RS
.IP \-e 10
Gets a writable copy of the file.
.IP \-r\fISID\fR
Get specified version.
.IP \-p
Send to standard output rather than to the actual file.
.IP \-k
Gets a writable copy of the file. Does not expand id keywords.
.IP \-i\fIlist\fR
Include list of deltas. 
.IP \-x\fIlist\fR
Exclude list of deltas. 
.IP \-m
Precede each line with SID of delta being created.
.IP \-c\fIdate\fR
Do not apply any deltas created after
.I date.
.RE
.IP edit 15
.NXR "edit command (sccs)"
Gets files for editing.
Id keywords are not expanded.
Should be matched with a
.B delta
command after editing.
.RS
.IP \-r\fISID\fR 10 
Get specified version.  If SID 
specifies a release that does not yet exist,
the highest numbered delta is retrieved
and the new delta is numbered with SID 
.IP \-b
Create a branch.
.IP \-i\fIlist\fR
Include list of deltas
.IP \-x\fIlist\fR
Exclude list of deltas
.RE
.IP delta   15
.NXR "delta command (sccs)"
Merge a file retrieved using
.B edit
back into the s-file.
Collect comments about why this delta was made.
.IP unedit  
.NXR "unedit command (sccs)"
Remove a file that has been edited previously
without merging the changes into the s-file.
.IP info 
.NXR "info command (sccs)"
Display a list of all files being edited.
.RS
.IP \-b 10 
Ignore branches.
.IP \-u[\fIuser\fP]
Ignore files not being edited by
.I user .
.RE
.IP check 15
.NXR "check command (sccs)"
Same as
.I info,
except that nothing is printed if nothing is being edited
and exit status is returned.
.IP prs
Produces a report of changes to the named file. Time, date,
user, number of lines changed, the revision number, and comments
are listed for each delta.
.IP create 
.NXR "create command (sccs)"
Create an s. file and do not remove the associated g-file.
.IP tell  
.NXR "tell command (sccs)"
Same as
.I info,
except that only the file name of files being edited is listed. 
.IP clean  
.NXR "clean command (sccs)"
Remove all files that can be regenerated from the
s-file.
.IP what  
.NXR "what command (sccs)"
Find and print id keywords.
.IP admin  
.NXR "admin command (sccs)"
Create or set parameters on s-files.
.RS
.IP \-i\fIfile\fR 10 
Create, using
.I file
as the initial contents.
.IP \-z
Rebuild the checksum in case
the file has been corrupted.
.IP \-f\fIflag\fR
Turn on the
.I flag.
.IP \-d\fIflag\fR
Turn off (delete) the
.I flag .
.IP \-t\fIfile\fR
Replace the text
in the s-file with the contents of
.I file.
If
.I file
is omitted,
the text is deleted.
Useful for storing documentation
or design and implementation
documents to insure distribution with the
s-file.
.PP
Useful flags are:
.IP b 10
Allow branches to be made using the \-b flag to
.I edit.
.IP d\fISID\fR
Default SID to be used
on a
.B get
or
.B edit.
.IP i
Cause
.I No Id Keywords
error message
to be a fatal error rather than a warning.
.IP t
The module
type; 
the value of this flag replaces the
.B %\&Y\&%
keyword.
.RE
.IP fix 15
.NXR "fix command (sccs)"
Remove a delta and reedit it.
.IP delget  
.NXR "delget command (sccs)"
Do a
.B delta
followed by a
.B get.
.IP deledit  
.NXR "deledit command (sccs)"
Do a
.B delta
followed by an
.B edit.
.IP diffs
.NXR "diffs command (sccs)"
Compare the g-file out for edit with an earlier SCCS version.
.IP sccsdiff
.NXR "sccsdiff command (sccs)"
Compare any two SCCS versions of a g-file.
.IP help
.NXR "sccshelp command"
Given either a command name, or
an sccs message number, this command 
provides additional information.
.SH Id Keywords
.NXR "sccs preprocessor" "keywords"
.IP %\&Z\&% 15
Expands to
@\&(#)
for the
.I what
command to find.
.IP %\&M\&%
The current module name,
for example,
prog.c.
.IP %\&I\&%
The highest SID applied.
.IP %\&W\&%
A shorthand for
``%\&Z\&%%\&M\&% <tab> %\&I\&%''.
.IP %\&G\&%.
The date of the delta
corresponding to the
%\&I\&%.
keyword.
.IP %\&R\&%.
The current release number,
for example,
the first component of the
%\&I\&%
keyword.
.IP %\&Y\&%
Replaced by the value of the
.B t
flag
(set by
.B admin).
.SH See Also
admin(1), cdc(1), comb(1), delta(1), get(1), prs(1), rmdel(1), 
sccshelp(1), unget(1), val(1), what(1), sccsfile(5)
.br
\fIGuide to the Source Code Control System\fP
