.\" SCCSID: @(#)script.1	8.1	9/11/90
.TH script 1
.SH Name
script \- generate script of your terminal session
.SH Syntax
.B script
[\fB\-a\fR] [\|\fIfile\fR\|]
.SH Description
.NXR "script command"
.NXR "typescript file" "creating"
.NXR "terminal" "capturing session in a file"
The
.PN script
command calls a forked shell and then makes a typescript 
of everything printed on your terminal.
The typescript is written to 
.I file,
or appended to
.I file
if the
.B \-a
option is given.
If no file name is given, the typescript
is saved in the file
.I typescript .
Later, it can be sent to the line printer with
.PN lpr .
.PP
When 
.PN script
is run, it will execute your .cshrc file and will also put 
you under control of a new pty. The 
.PN script 
program ends when the forked shell exits.
.PP
This program is useful when using a crt and you want a hard-copy
record of the dialog. An example of how 
.PN script
can be used is a student handing
in a program that was developed on a crt when hard-copy
terminals are in short supply.
.SH Options
.IP \-a 5
Appends output to the output 
.I file.
.SH Restrictions
Because the 
.PN script
command uses a second pair of pseudo ttys, some commands 
will fail when run under 
.PN script. 
For example, the 
.PN whoami
command may not always return a username. 
.PP
Also, the  
.PN vi
editor can be affected by
.PN script .
The 
.PN vi
commands j, k, h, and l that are used to move the cursor, do not 
always function properly. If the screen becomes garbled when 
using these commands, use <ctrl> L to refresh the screen.
.SH See Also
pty(4)
