.TH shexp 1 
.SH Name
shexp \- display password expiration information for a user
.SH Syntax
.B shexp
[\fB\-q\fP]
[\fIusername\fP]
.SH Description
.NXR "shexp command"
.NXR "auth database" "examination"
.NXR "auth database" "shexp command"
The command
.PN shexp
is used to display a user's password expiration information.
The specified 
.IR username , 
or logname if no 
.I username 
is supplied, is
converted to a UID by searching through the passwd file.
The UID is then used to look up the user's entry
in the Auth Data Base.
The password expiration information is then printed out in
.PN ctime(3)
format.
.EX
% shexp
Expires Tue Dec  6 10:49:18 EST 1988
.EE
If the password has already expired the word \fIExpires\fP will be
replaced with the word \fIExpired\fP. If password expiration is disabled
for the particular user in question the output of
.PN shexp
will be \fINever expires\fP.
.SH Options
.IP \-q 5
Instead of displaying the expiration date and time in
.PN ctime(3)
format, 
.PN shexp
outputs it as three
decimal numbers: the minimum password lifetime, the maximum password
lifetime, and the password modification time.
All three numbers are displayed as they are found in the
.PN auth
database.
.SH Restrictions
Only the super-user may obtain information about
users with UIDs other than the real UID of the invoking process.
.SH Diagnostics
.B "User not found in passwd data base."
.br
There is no entry in 
.PN /etc/passwd
for the specified 
.IR username .
.PP
.B "Cannot stat auth file."
.br
The 
.PN auth 
database is missing (security features may not be enabled).
.PP
.B "Insufficient privilege."
.br
An insufficiently privileged user is asking for information about a
.I username 
with a UID different then their current real-UID.
.PP
An exit value of 0 indicates a successful operation,
any other exit status indicates an error.
.SH Files
.PN /etc/auth.[pag,dir]
.br
.PN /etc/passwd
.SH See Also
passwd(1), getauthuid(3), auth(5)
.br
\fISecurity Guide for Users\fP
