.TH show 1mh
.SH Name
show \- show (list) messages
.SH Syntax
.B show
[
.I +folder
] [
.I msgs
] [
.B \-draft
] [
.B \-[no]header
] [
.B \-help
] [
.B \-showproc 
.I program
] [
.B \-noshowproc
] [
.I "options to"
.PN showproc
]
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Description
.NXR "show command"
Use 
.PN show
to display the contents of the current message.  
You can specify alternative messages or folders by using the
.I +folder
or 
.I msgs
arguments.  
.PP
If a folder is given, it becomes the current folder.
The last message shown becomes the current message.
.PP
You can specify a number of messages or a range of messages using the 
.I msgs 
argument. 
If you specify more than one message, 
.PN show
prompts for a <RETURN> prior to listing each message.
.PP
Typically, the messages are listed exactly as they are, 
with no reformatting.
A program named by the \f(CWshowproc\fR component in the 
.PN \&.mh_profile
file is invoked to do the listing, 
and any options not recognized by
.PN show
are passed along to that program.
The default program is 
.MS more 1 .  
.PP
By default, the
.PN show
command use the 
.PN more
program to list each message, a page at a time.
When the end of the page is reached, 
it waits for a <RETURN> or a space.
If you press <RETURN>, 
.PN show
prints the next line.  
If you press the space bar, 
it prints the next screen of data.
At the end of the message,
.PN show
automatically returns you to the system prompt.  
Press \f(CBq\fR
to quit before the end of the message.
.PP
If the profile entry \f(CWUnseen-Sequence:\fR
is present and non-empty, then 
.PN show
will remove each of the messages shown 
from the sequences named by the profile entry.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Options
.IP \-draft 10
Displays the draft message, or the current message in your
.PN +drafts
folder, if you have one set up.
You cannot give a
.I msgs
argument when you use this option.
.\"
.\" ***This option commented out
.ig
.IP "\-form \fIformfile\fB" 10
***ANY INFORMATION ON THIS???
.br
***IS IT -form OR -format???
..
.\" ***End of comments
.\"
.IP \-header 10
.PD 0
.IP \-noheader 10
.PD
Displays a one-line header before the message.
The header consists of the name of the folder
and the message number.
This is the default behavior.
It can be suppressed with the
.B \-noheader
option.
.\"
.IP \-help 10
Prints a list of the valid options to this command.
.\"
.IP "\-showproc \fIprogram\fR [ \fIoptions\fR ]\fB" 10
.PD 0
.IP \-noshowproc 10
.PD
Specifies an alternative program to list messages.
The default is to use the program defined by the
\f(CWshowproc:\fR entry in the
.PN \&.mh_profile
file.
You can give options to the
.PN showproc
program at the command line.
These are passed directly to
.PN showproc
by
.PN show .
.IP
If the 
.B \-noshowproc
option is specified,
.PN /bin/cat
is used instead of 
.PN showproc .
.IP
The MH command 
.PN mhl
can be used as a 
.PN showproc
to show messages in a more uniform format.  
See 
.MS mhl 1mh
for more details.
.IP
If you are going to use the same 
.PN showproc 
all the time, it is advisable to specify it in your 
.PN \&.mh_profile 
file.
See 
.MS mh_profile 5mh 
for more details.
.\"
.PP
The defaults for this command are as follows:
.IP
.I +folder
defaults to the current folder
.br
.I msgs
defaults to the current message
.br
.B \-header
.\"
.\" ***COMMENTED OUT
.\" ***Noinformation on -form or -format option
.\" .br
.\" .B \-format
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Restrictions
The 
.B \-header
option does not work when 
.PN msgs
expands to more than
one message.
If the 
.PN showproc
is 
.PN mhl ,
then this problem can be circumvented by referencing
the \f(CWmessagename\fR field in the 
.PN mhl
format file.
.PP
The command
.PN show
updates your mail environment
before showing the message.
Hence 
.PN show
may mark messages as seen before you 
actually see them.
However, this is generally not a problem,
unless you are using the \f(CWunseen\fR messages mechanism,
and you interrupt
.PN show
while it is showing \f(CWunseen\fR messages.
.PP
If your
.PN showproc
is 
.PN mhl ,
then 
.PN show
uses a built-in 
.PN mhl :
it does not actually run the 
.PN mhl
program.
Hence, if you define your own 
.PN showproc ,
do not call it 
.PN mhl
since 
.PN show
will not run it.
.PP
If 
.MS more 1 
is your 
.PN showproc 
(which is the default), then avoid running 
.PN show
in the background with only its standard output 
piped to another process.  
You should re-direct the diagnostic output of
.PN show
as well.
.PP 
For example, in the following incorrect example,
.PN show
will go into a 
.PN tty
input state:
.EX
% \f(CBshow | print &\f(CW
.EE
For users of 
.PN csh ,
the correct command is:
.EX
% \f(CBshow |& print &\f(CW
.EE
For users of 
.PN sh ,
the correct command is:
.EX
% \f(CBshow 2>&1 | print &\f(CW
.EE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Examples
In the first example,
.PN show
displays the contents of message 36 
in the current folder:
.EX
% \f(CBshow 36\f(CW
.EE
.PP
In the next example, the
.MS pr 1  
program is used to list the current message:
.EX 
% \f(CBshow \-showproc pr\f(CW
.EE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Profile Components
.TS
tab(+);
l l.
Path:+To determine the user's Mail directory
Unseen-Sequence:+To name sequences denoting unseen messages
showproc:+Program to show messages
.TE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Files
.TP 10
.PN $HOME/.mh_profile
The user profile.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH See Also
more(1), mhl(1mh), next(1mh), pick(1mh), prev(1mh), scan(1mh)
