.TH sortm 1mh
.\"
.\"
.SH Name
sortm \- sort messages
.SH Syntax
.B sortm
[
.I msgs
] [
.I +folder
] [ 
.I options
]
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Description
.NXR "sortm command"
.NXR "MH user agent" "sorting messages"
The command
.PN sortm
sorts all the messages in the current folder into 
chronological order according to the contents of the 
\f(CWDate:\fR fields of the messages.  
.PP
By default, 
.PN sortm
sorts all the messages in the current folder.
You can select particular messages in the folder
by giving a range of messages.
You can also sort messages in another folder by specifying
the folder name.
.PP
If 
.PN sortm
encounters a message without a \f(CWDate:\fR field,
or if the message has a \f(CWDate:\fR field that
.PN sortm
cannot parse,
it attempts to keep the message in the same relative position.
However, this does not always work;
for instance, if the first message encountered lacks a date which can be
parsed,
then it will usually be placed at the end of the messages being sorted.
.PP
When 
.PN sortm
complains about a message which it cannot
order,
it complains about the message number prior
to sorting.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Options
.IP "\-datefield \fIfield\fR" 10
Specifies the name of the header field to use 
when making the date comparison.
If you have a special field in each message,
such as \f(CWDelivery\-Date:\fR,
then the 
.B \-datefield
switch can be used to tell
.PN sortm
which
field to examine.
If you do not give this option, the default is to use the 
\f(CWDate:\fR header field.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-help
Prints a list of all the valid options to this command.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-verbose 10
.PD 0
.IP \-noverbose 10
.PD
Displays the general actions that it is taking 
to place the folder in sorted order.
The 
.B \-noverbose
option performs these actions silently.
The default is 
\fB\-noverbose\fR.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The default settings for this command are:
.IP
.I +folder
defaults to the current folder
.br
.I msgs
defaults to all
.br
.B \-datefield\ date
.br
.B \-noverbose
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Profile Components
.TS
tab(+);
l l.
Path:+To determine your MH directory
.TE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Examples
The following example sorts all the messages in the folder
.PN +meetings :
.EX
% \f(CBsortm +meetings
.EE
.PP
The next example sorts messages 10-30 in the folder called
.PN +test :
.EX
% \f(CBsortm +test 10-30
.EE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH Files
.TP 10
.PN $HOME/\&.mh_profile
The user profile.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH See Also
folder(1mh)
