.\" SCCSID: @(#)spell.1	8.1	9/11/90
.TH spell 1
.SH Name
spell, spellin, spellout \- check text for spelling errors
.SH Syntax
.B spell
[\fB\-v\fR] [\fB\-b\fR] [\fB\-x\fR] [\fB\-d\fI hlist\fR\|] 
[+\fIlocal-file\fR]
[\fB\-s\fI hstop\fR\|] [\fB\-h\fI spellhist\fR\|] [\|\fIfile...\fR\|] 
.PP
.B spellin
[\|\fIlist\fR\|]
.PP
.B spellout
[\fB\-d\fR] \fIlist\fR
.SH Description
.NXR "spell command"
.NXR "spellin command"
.NXR "spellout command"
The
.PN spell
command collects words from the named documents,
and looks them up in a spelling list.
Words that are not on the spelling list and
are not derivable from words on the list
(by applying certain inflections, prefixes or suffixes)
are printed on the standard output.
If no files are specified,
words are collected from the standard input.
.PP
The
.PN spell
command ignores most
.PN troff ,
.PN tbl
and
.PN eqn
constructions.
.PP
Two routines help maintain the hash lists used by
.PN spell .
Both expect a set of words, one per line,
from the standard input.
The
.PN spellin
command combines the words from the standard input and the
preexisting
.I list
file and places a new list on the standard output.
If no 
.I list
file is specified, a new list is generated.
The
.PN spellout
command looks up each word from the standard input and prints
on the standard output
those that are missing from (or present on, with
option
.BR \-d )
the hashed
.I list
file.
For example, to verify that
.I hookey
is not on the default spelling list, add it to your own
private list, and then use it with
.PN spell ,
.EX
echo  hookey  |  spellout  /usr/dict/hlista
echo  hookey  |  spellin  /usr/dict/hlista  >  myhlist
spell  \-d  myhlist <filename>
.EE
.SH Options
.NXR "spell command" "options"
.IP \fB\-v\fR 15
Displays words not found in spelling list with all plausible derivations 
from spelling list.  
.IP \fB\-b\fR
Checks data according to British spelling.  
Besides preferring
.ft I
centre, colour, speciality, travelled,
.ft R
this option insists upon
.I \-ise
instead of 
.I \-ize 
in words like
.I standardise.
.IP \fB\-x\fR 
Precedes each word with an equal sign (=) and displays
all plausible derivations.  
.IP "\fB\-\|d\fI hlist\fR" 
Specifies the file used for the spelling list.  
.IP "\fB\-\|h\fI spellhist\fR" 
Specifies the file used as the history file.  
.IP "\fB\-\|s\fI hstop\fR" 
Specifies the file used for the stop list.  
.IP "+\fIlocal-file\fR"
Removes words found in \fIlocal-file\fR from the output of the
.PN spell
command.
The argument \fIlocal-file\fR is
the name of a file provided by the user that contains a sorted list of
words, one per line.  With this option, the user can specify
a list of words for a particular job that are spelled correctly.
.PP
The auxiliary files used for the spelling list,
stop list, and history file may be specified by
arguments following the
.BR \-d ,
.BR \-s ,
and
.B \-h
options.
The default files are indicated below.
Copies of all output
may be accumulated in the history file.
The stop list filters out misspellings (for example, thier=thy\-y+ier)
that would otherwise pass.
.SH Restrictions
.NXR "spell command" "restricted"
The coverage of the spelling list is uneven;
new installations will probably wish to 
monitor the output for several months to gather
local additions.
.PP
The 
.PN spell
command works only with ASCII text
files.
.SH Files
.ta 2.0i
\f(CW/usr/dict/hlist[ab]\fR	hashed spelling lists, American &
	British, default for \fB\-d\fR
.br
\f(CW/usr/dict/hstop\fR	hashed stop list, default for \fB\-s
.br
\f(CW/dev/null\fR	history file, default for
.B \-h
.br
\f(CW/tmp/spell.$$\(**\fR	temporary files
.br
\f(CW/usr/lib/spell\fR
.SH See Also
deroff(1), sed(1), sort(1), tee(1)
