.TH strextract 1int
.SH Name
strextract \- batch string extraction
.SH Syntax
.B strextract
[
.B \-p
.I patternfile
] [
.B \-i
.I ignorefile
] [
.B \-d
] [
.I source-program...
]
.SH Description
.NXR "strextract utility"
The 
.PN strextract
command extracts text strings from source programs. 
This command also writes the string it extracts to a message text file. 
The message text file contains the text for each message extracted 
from your input source program. The 
.PN strextract
command names the file by appending .msg to the name of the input source program.
.PP
In the 
.I source-program
argument, you name one or more source programs
from which you want messages extracted. The 
.PN strextract
command does not extract messages from source programs included using the
.PN #include 
directive. Therefore, you might want a source program and all the source
programs it includes on a single 
.PN strextract
command line.
.PP
You can create a patterns file (as specified by 
.I patternfile
) to control how the 
.PN strextract 
command extracts text. The patterns file is divided into several sections,
each of which is identified by a keyword. The keyword must start at the
beginning of a new line, and its first character must be a dollar sign ($).
Following the identifier, you specify a number of patterns. Each pattern
begins on a new line and follows the regular expression syntax you use in
the 
.MS regex 3
routine. For more information on the patterns file, see the
.PN patterns
(5int) reference page.
.PP
In addition to the patterns file, you can create a file that indicates
strings that
.PN extract
ignores.  Each line in this ignore file contains a single string to be
ignored that
follows the syntax of the
.MS regex 3
routine.
.PP
When you invoke the
.PN strextract
command, it reads the patterns file and the file that contains strings
it ignores.  You can specify a patterns file and an ignore file on the
.PN strextract 
command line.  Otherwise, the
.PN strextract
command matches all strings and uses the default patterns file.
.PP
If 
.PN strextract
finds strings which match the
.PN ERROR
directive in the pattern file, it reports the strings to standard 
error (stderr.) but does not write the string to the message file.
.PP
After running
.PN strextract ,
you can edit the message text file to remove text strings which do not 
need translating before running
.PN strmerge .
.PP
It is  recommended that you use
.PN extract
command  as a visual front end to the
.PN strextract
command rather than running
.PN strextract
directly.
.SH Options
.IP \fB\-i\fR 5
Ignore text strings specified in
.I ignorefile.
By default, the 
.PN strextract
command searches for 
.I ignorefile 
in the current working directory, your home directory, and 
.PN /usr/lib/intln .
.IP
If you omit the 
.PN \-i
option, 
.PN strextract
recognizes all strings specified in the patterns file.
.IP \fB\-p\fR 5
Use \fIpatternfile\fR to match strings in the input source program. By default,
the command searches for the pattern file in the current working directory,
your home directory, and finally 
.PN /usr/lib/intln .
.IP
If you omit the 
.PN \-p
option, the 
.PN strextract
command uses a default patterns file that is stored in 
.PN /usr/lib/intln/patterns .
.IP \fB\-d\fR 5
Disables warnings of duplicate strings. If you omit the 
.PN \-d 
option, 
.PN strextract
prints warnings of duplicate strings in your source program.
.SH Restrictions
Given the default pattern file, you cannot cause 
.PN strextract
to ignore strings in comments that are longer than one line.
.PP
You can specify only one rewrite string for all classes of pattern matches.
.PP
The 
.PN strextract 
command does not extract strings from files include with 
.PN #include 
directive. You must run the 
.PN strextract
commands on these files separately.
.EX 
% strextract \-p c_patterns prog.c prog2.c
% vi prog.msg
% strmerge \-p c_patterns prog.c prog2.c
% gencat prog.cat prog.msf prog2.msf
% vi nl_prog.c
% vi nl_prog2.c
% cc nl_prog.c nl_prog2.c \-li
.EE 
.PP
In this example, the
.PN strextract 
command uses the 
.PN c_patterns 
file to determine which strings to match. The input source programs are named
.PN prog.c
and
.PN prog2.c .
.PP
If you need to remove any of the messages or extract one of the created strings, edit the 
resulting message file, 
.PN prog.msg .
Under no conditions should you add to this file. Doing so could result in 
unpredictable behavior.
.PP
You issue the 
.PN strmerge
command to replace the extracted strings with calls to the message catalog.
In response to this command, 
.PN strmerge ,
creates the source message catalogs,
.PN prog.msf
and 
.PN prog2.msf ,
and the output source programs,
.PN nl_prog.c
and 
.PN nl_prog2.c .
.PP
You must edit 
.PN nl_prog.c
and
.PN nl_prog2.c
to include the appropriate 
.PN catopen
and 
.PN catclose
function calls.
.PP
The 
.PN gencat
command creates a message catalog and the 
.PN cc
command creates an executable program.
.SH See Also
intro(3int), gencat(1int), extract(1int), strmerge(1int), regex(3),
catopen(3int), patterns(5int)
.br 
\fIGuide to Developing International Software\fP
