.\" SCCSID: @(#)tbl.1	8.1	9/11/90
.TH tbl 1
.SH Name
tbl \- format tables for nroff or *roff
.SH Syntax
.B tbl
[\|\fIfiles...\fR\|]
.SH Description
.NXR "tbl preprocessor"
.NXA "nroff text processor" "tbl preprocessor"
.NXR "table" "formatting"
The
.PN tbl
preprocessor is used for formatting tables for
.PN nroff
or
.PN *roff .
The input files are copied to the standard output,
except for lines between .TS and .TE command lines,
which are assumed to describe tables
and are reformatted.
.SH Options
.IP \-TX 8
Produces output without fractional line motions.
Use when the destination output device or
printer or post-filter cannot handle fractional line motions.
.IP \-ms
Reads in 
.PN ms
macros prior to table formatting.
.IP \-mm
Reads in the 
.PN mm 
macros prior to table formatting, if your system
has the 
.PN *roff 
.PN mm 
macros installed.
.SH Examples
.PP
As an example, letting \\t represent a tab (which should be typed as a genuine
tab) the input
.IP ""
\&.TS
.nf
c s s
c c s
c c c
l n n.
Household Population
Town\\tHouseholds
\\tNumber\\tSize
Bedminster\\t789\\t3.26
Bernards Twp.\\t3087\\t3.74
Bernardsville\\t2018\\t3.30
Bound Brook\\t3425\\t3.04
Branchburg\\t1644\\t3.49
Bridgewater\\t7897\\t3.81
Far Hills\\t240\\t3.19
\&.TE
.fi
.PP
.nf
yields
.ne 10
.IP " "
.TS
c s s
c c s
c c c
l n n.
Household Population
Town	Households
	Number	Size
Bedminster	789	3.26
Bernards Twp.	3087	3.74
Bernardsville	2018	3.30
Bound Brook	3425	3.04
Branchburg	1644	3.49
Bridgewater	7897	3.81
Far Hills	240	3.19
.TE
.fi
.PP
If no arguments are given,
.PN tbl
reads the standard input, so it may be used as a filter.  When 
.PN tbl
is used with
.PN eqn
or
.PN neqn ,
.NXR "tbl preprocessor" "eqn and"
the
.PN tbl
command should be first, to minimize the volume of data passed through pipes.
.SH See Also
nroff(1)
.br
"Tbl - A Program to Format Tables," 
.I ULTRIX Supplementary Documents,
Vol. I:General User
