.\" SCCSID: @(#)tc.1	8.1	9/11/90
.TH tc 1 "" "" Unsupported
.SH Name
tc \- phototypesetter simulator
.SH Syntax
.B tc
[
.B \-t
]
[
.B \-s\fIN\fP
]
[
.B \-p\fIL\fP
]
[
.I file
]
.SH Description
The
.PN tc
command interprets its
input (standard input default)
as device codes for a Graphic Systems phototypesetter (cat).
The standard output of
.PN tc
is intended for a Tektronix 4015 (a 4014 terminal
with ASCII and APL character sets).
The sixteen typesetter sizes are mapped into the 4014's
four sizes;
the entire TROFF character set is drawn using the 4014's
character generator,
using overstruck combinations where necessary.
Typical usage:
.IP "" 15
troff \-t file | tc
.PP
At the end of each page
.I tc
waits for a newline (empty line) from the keyboard before
continuing on to the next page.
In this wait state, the command
.B e
will suppress the screen erase before the next page;
.B s\c
N will cause the next N pages to be skipped;
and
.B !\c
line will send line to the shell.
.SH Options
.TP 8
.B  \-t
Don't wait between pages; for directing output into a file.
.TP 
.BI \-s N
Skip the first 
.I N 
pages.
.TP 
.BI \-p L
Set page length to 
.IR L .
.I L 
may include the scale factors
.B p
(points),
.B i
(inches),
.B c
(centimeters),
and
.B P
(picas);
default is picas.
.TP
.BI \(fm\- l\ w \(fm
Multiply the default aspect ratio, 1.5, of a displayed page
by
.I l/w.
.SH Restrictions
Font distinctions are lost.
.PP
.PN tc 's
character set is limited to ASCII in just one size.
.SH See Also
troff(1),
plot(1g)
