.TH tic 1
.SH Name
tic \- terminfo compiler
.SH Syntax
.B tic
[
.BR \-v[n]
] [
.I file ...
]
.SH Description
.NX R "terminfo compiler" "tic"
.NX R "tic" "terminfo compiler" 
The 
.PN tic
command translates 
.PN terminfo 
files from the source format 
into the compiled format.
The results are placed in the directory 
.PN /usr/lib/terminfo .
The compiled format is necessary for use with the library routines 
described in 
.MS intro 3cur .
The 
.I file
argument contains one or more 
.PN terminfo 
terminal descriptions in 
.MS terminfo 5
source format.
If no file argument is present, the standard input is read.
.PP
The
.PN tic
command compiles all terminfo descriptions in the given files.
Each description in the file describes the 
capabilities of a particular terminal.
When a \fIuse=entry_name\fP field is discovered,
.PN tic
duplicates the capabilities in \fIentry_name\fP for the current entry,
with the exception of the capabilities that are 
explicitly defined in the current entry.
.PP
If the environment variable TERMINFO is set, the results are placed
there instead of in
.PN /usr/lib/terminfo .
The variable TERMINFO must be a directory pathname.  
The compiled results are placed
in subdirectories of the directory specified by the TERMINFO environment
variable.
.IP "\-v[\fIn\fP]" 8
Causes
.PN tic
to output trace information showing its progress (verbose mode).
The optional integer \fIn\fP is a number from 1 to 10, inclusive, 
indicating the desired level of information.
If \fIn\fP is greater than 1, the level of detail is increased.
If \fIn\fP is omitted, the default is 1.
.SH Restrictions
Total compiled entries cannot exceed 4096 bytes.
.PP
The 
.I entry_name 
field cannot exceed 128 bytes.
.PP
When an entry, for example 
.I entry_name_1,
contains a \fIuse=entry_name_2\fP field, any canceled capabilities in 
\fIentry_name_2\fP must also appear in 
.I entry_name_1
before \fIuse=\fP for these capabilities to be canceled in 
.I entry_name_1.
.SH Files
.TP 25
.PN /usr/lib/terminfo/*/*
Compiled terminal capability data base
.SH See Also
intro(3cur), terminfo(5)
.br
\fIGuide to X/Open curses Screen Handling\fP
