.\" SCCSID: @(#)tip.1c	8.1	9/11/90
.TH tip 1c
.SH Name
tip, cu \- connect to a remote system
.SH Syntax
.B tip
[\fB\-v\fR] [\fB\-\fIspeed\fR\|] \fIsystem-name\fR
.br
.B tip
[\fB\-v\fR] [\fB\-\fIspeed\fR\|] \fIphone-number\fR
.br
.B cu
\fIphone-number\fR
[\fB\-t\fR] [\fB\-s\fI speed\fR\|] [\fB\-a\fI acu\fR\|] 
[\fB\-l\fI line\fR\|] [\fB\-#\fR]
.SH Description
.NXR "tip command"
.NXR "cu command"
.NXR "logging in" "to remote system"
.NXAM "remote file" "tip command"
.NXA "tip command" "rlogin command"
The
.PN tip
and
.PN cu
commands establish a full-duplex connection to another system,
giving the appearance of being logged in directly on the
remote cpu.
Modems must be present on your system and configured into the
.PN /etc/remote
file in order for
.PN tip
and
.PN cu
to work.
See 
.MS uucpsetup 8
for information on how to set up the modems.
.PP
You must have an account 
on the system (or equivalent) into which you wish to log in. 
The preferred interface is
.PN tip .
The
.PN cu
interface is included for those people attached to the
``call UNIX'' command of version 7.
This manual page describes only 
.PN tip .
.SH Options
.IP \fB\-#\fR 0.3i
Uses specified speed (#) as baud rate.  
.IP \fB\-l\fR 0.3i
Uses specified terminal line.  
.IP \fB\-v\fR 0.3i
Displays all variable settings.  
.PP
Typed characters are normally transmitted directly to the remote
system,
which does the echoing as well.
A tilde (~') appearing
as the first character of a line is an escape signal.
.NXR "tip command" "tilde escapes"
The tilde escapes are: 
.IP \fB\~CTRL/D~.\fR 0.3i
Drop the connection and exit (you may still be logged in on the remote machine).
.IP "\fB\~c \fR [\fIname\fR]" o.3i
Change directory to name (no argument causes a change to your home directory).
.IP \fB\~!\fR 0.3i
Escape to a shell (exiting the shell returns you to 
.PN tip
).
.IP \fB\~>\fR 0.3i
Copy file from local to remote.
The
.PN tip
command prompts for the name of a local file to transmit.
.IP \fB\~<\fR 0.3i
Copy file from remote to local.
The
.PN tip
command prompts first for the name of the file to be sent, then for
a command to be executed on the remote system.
.IP "\fB\~p \fR \fIfrom\fR [ \fIto\fR ]" 0.3i
Send a file to a remote UNIX host.
The 
.B put 
command causes the remote UNIX
system to run the command string: 
cat > to, while
.PN tip
sends it the 
.I from
file.
If the 
.I to 
file is not specified the 
.I from
file name is used.
This command is actually a UNIX specific version of the 
.B ~>
command.
.IP \fB\~t\fP \fIfrom\fR [ \fIto\fR ]" 0.3i
Take a file from a remote UNIX host. 
As in the 
.B put 
command the 
.I to 
file defaults to the 
.I from 
file name if it isn't specified. 
The remote host
executes the command string 
cat 'from';echo ^A
to send the file to
.PN tip .
.IP \fB\~|\fR 0.3i
Pipe the output from a remote command to a local UNIX process.
The command string sent to the
local UNIX system is processed by the shell.
.IP \fB\~#\fR 0.3i
Send a BREAK to the remote system. 
For systems which don't support the
necessary
.PN ioctl
call the break is simulated by a sequence of line speed changes
and DEL characters.
.IP \fB\~s\fR 0.3i
Sets a variable.  See the discussion below.
.IP \fB\~v\fR 0.3i
Displays sets as they are made.  
.IP \fB\~CTRL/Z\fR 0.3i
Stop
.PN tip
(only available with job control).
.IP \fB\~?\fR 0.3i
Displays a summary of the tilde escapes
.sp
.PP
The
.PN tip
utility uses the file 
.PN /etc/remote
to find how to reach a particular
system and to find out how it should operate while talking
to the system.
Refer to 
.MS remote 5
for a full description.
Each system has a default baud rate with which to
establish a connection.
If this value is not suitable,
the baud rate to be used may be specified on the command line,
for example,
.B tip \-300 mds.
.PP
When
.PN tip
establishes a connection it sends out a
connection message to the remote system; the default value, if any,
is defined in 
.PN /etc/remote .
.PP
When
.PN tip
prompts for an argument (for example, during setup of
a file transfer) the line typed may be edited with the standard
erase and kill characters.
A null line in response to a prompt,
or an interrupt, will abort the dialogue and return you to the
remote system.
.PP
The
.PN tip
command
guards against multiple users connecting to a remote system
by opening modems and terminal lines with exclusive access,
and by honoring the locking protocol used by 
.MS uucp 1c .
.PP
During file transfers 
.PN tip
provides a running count of the number of lines transferred.
When using the ~> and ~< commands, the 
.I eofread and 
.I eofwrite
variables are used to recognize end-of-file when reading, and
specify end-of-file when writing (see below).
File transfers
normally depend on tandem mode for flow control.
If the remote
system does not support tandem mode, 
.I echocheck 
may be set
to indicate
.PN tip
should synchronize with the remote system on the echo of each
transmitted character.
.PP
When
.PN tip
must dial a phone number to connect to a system it will print
various messages indicating its actions.
The
.PN tip
command supports two methods of dialing modems.
Tailored subroutines built into 
.PN tip
support the DIGITAL DN-11, DF02, DF03, DF112, DF124,
and DF224 modems, the
Racal-Vadic 831 auto-call modem, the Ventel 212+ modem,
Racal-Vadic 3451 modem, and the Bizcomp 1031 and 1032 
integral call unit/modems.
.PP
A generic dialer interface provides an alternative 
method to tailored subroutines
for each type of modem. 
The generic method uses entries similar to 
.MS termcap 5
to provide
.PN tip
with the information needed to activate some modem and place a call.
The file used by the generic dialer is 
.PN /etc/acucap 
and the format of entries in this file are described in 
.PN acucap 5.
.PP
Note that the generic dialer interface is used whenever the
.IR AT
field from an entry of 
.PN /etc/remote
matches the name field of an entry of 
.PN /etc/acucap .
If no match is found, then the tailored subroutine list is searched
and will be used if that modem is supported there.
.PP
.NT Caution 
When using a DIGITAL DF112 modem, disable the ``Interface Test Mode
Indicate'' option (set switchpack2,
switch 6 to the OFF position)..\" End
.NE 
.PP
.SM
.B VARIABLES
.NXR "tip command" "variables"
The
.PN tip
command maintains a set of
.I variables
which control its operation.
Some of these variables are read-only to normal users (root is allowed
to change anything of interest).
Variables may be displayed and set through the 
.I s 
escape.
The syntax for variables is patterned
after 
.MS vi 1
and
.MS mail 1 .
Supplying 
.I all
as an argument to the 
.B set 
command displays all variables readable by the user.
Alternatively, the user may request display of a particular
variable by attaching a ? to the end.
For example 
.I escape?
displays the current escape character.
.PP
Variables are numeric, string, character, or boolean values.
Boolean variables are set merely by specifying their name;
they may be reset by prepending a ! to the name.
Other variable types are set by
concatenating an = and the value.
The entire assignment must not have any blanks in it.
A single set command may be used to interrogate
as well as set a number of variables.
Variables may be initialized at run time by placing set commands
(without the ~s prefix in a file .tiprc in one's home directory).
The
.B \-v
option causes
.PN tip
to display the sets as they are made.
Certain common variables have abbreviations. 
The following is a list of common variables,
their abbreviations, and their default values.
.TP
.B beautify
.br
(bool) Discard unprintable characters when a session is being scripted;
abbreviated 
.IR be .
.TP
.B baudrate
.br
(num) The baud rate at which the connection was established;
abbreviated
.IR ba .
.TP
.B dialtimeout
.br
(num) When dialing a phone number, the time (in seconds)
to wait for a connection to be established; abbreviated
.IR dial .
.TP
.B echocheck
.br
(bool) Synchronize with the remote host during file transfer by
waiting for the echo of the last character transmitted;
default is
.IR off .
.TP
.B eofread
.br
(str) The set of characters which signify an end-of-transmission
during a ~< file transfer command; abbreviated
.IR eofr .
.TP
.B eofwrite
.br
(str) The string sent to indicate end-of-transmission during
a ~> file transfer command; abbreviated
.IR eofw .
.TP
.B eol
.br
(str) The set of characters which indicate an end-of-line.
The
.PN tip
command will recognize escape characters only after an end-of-line.
.TP
.B escape
.br
(char) The command prefix (escape) character; abbreviated
.IR es ;
default value is ~.
.TP
.B exceptions
.br
(str) The set of characters which should not be discarded
due to the beautification switch; abbreviated
.IR ex ;
default value is \et\en\ef\eb.
.TP
.B force
.br
(char) The character used to force literal data transmission;
abbreviated
.IR fo ;
default value is ^P.
.TP
.B framesize
.br
(num) The amount of data (in bytes) to buffer between file system
writes when receiving files; abbreviated
.IR fr .
.TP
.B host
.br
(str) The name of the host to which you are connected; abbreviated
.IR ho .
.TP
.B prompt
.br
(char) The character which indicates an end-of-line on the remote
host; abbreviated
.IR pr ;
default value is \n.
This value is used to synchronize during what data transfers.
The count of lines transferred during a file transfer
command is based on receipt of this character.
.TP
.B raise
.br
(bool) Upper case mapping mode; abbreviated 
.IR ra ;
default value is 
.IR off .
When this mode is enabled, all lower case letters will be mapped to
upper case by
.PN tip
for transmission to the remote system.
.TP
.B raisechar
.br
(char) The input character used to toggle upper case mapping mode;
abbreviated
.IR rc ;
default value is ^A.
.TP
.B record
.br
(str) The name of the file in which a session script is recorded;
abbreviated
.IR rec;
default value is tip.record.
.TP
.B script
.br
(bool) Session scripting mode; abbreviated
.IR sc ;
default is 
.IR off .
When
.I script
is 
.IR true ,
.PN tip
will record everything transmitted by the remote system in
the script record file specified in
.IR record .
If the
.I beautify
switch is on, only printable ASCII characters will be included in
the script file (those characters between 040 and 0177).
The variable
.I exceptions
is used to indicate characters which are an exception to the normal
beautification rules.
.TP
.B tabexpand
.br
(bool) Expand tabs to spaces during file transfers; abbreviated
.IR tab ;
default value is
.IR false .
Each tab is expanded to 8 spaces.
.TP
.B verbose
.br
(bool) Verbose mode; abbreviated
.IR verb ;
default is 
.IR true .
When verbose mode is enabled, 
.PN tip
prints messages while dialing, shows the current number
of lines transferred during a file transfer operations,
and more.
.TP
SHELL
.br
(str) The name of the shell to use for the ~! command; default
value is /bin/sh.  
.TP
HOME
.br
(str) The home directory to use for the ~c command; default
value is taken from the environment.
.NXR "tip command" "variables"
.PP
.SH Diagnostics
Diagnostics are self-explanatory.
.SH Files
.ta \w'/usr/spool/uucp/LCK..*   'u
.nf
/etc/remote	global system descriptions
/etc/phones	global phone number data base
/etc/acucap	shared autodial modem database
${REMOTE}	private system descriptions
${PHONES}	private phone numbers
~/.tiprc	initialization file.
/usr/spool/uucp/LCK..*	lock file to avoid conflicts with \fIuucp\fP
.fi
.SH See Also
acucap(5), phones(5), remote(5), uucpsetup(8)
