.TH trans 1int
.SH Name
trans \- translation tool for use with source message catalogs
.SH Syntax
.B trans
[
.B \-c
] [
.B \-o
.I name
]
.I file.msf
.SH Description
.NXR "trans utility"
The
.PN trans
command assists in the translation of source message catalogs.  The command 
reads input from
.I file.msf
and writes its output to either a file named
.PN trans.msf
or a file you name on the command line.  The command displays 
.I file.msf
in a multiple window screen that lets you simultaneously
see the original
message, the translated text you enter, and any messages from the
.PN trans
command.  This multiple window screen is easier to use for 
translating messages than a single window screen.
.PP
The top window in the multiple window screen displays the text in the message 
source file
.I file.msf.
The editor displays the current message in reverse video.
.PP
In the center window, 
.PN trans
displays a prompt that asks you to enter a translated message.  You use a
control key editor to move the cursor and delete text in the center window.
The control key sequences are defined as follows:
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
lp-1v-1fHB lp-1v-1fHB
lp-1v-1 lp-1v-1 .
_
.sp 6p
Key Sequence@Meaning
.sp 6p
_
CTRL/k@Display control key help
CTRL/h@Back space
CTRL/l@Forward space
CTRL/w@Back word	
CTRL/f@Forward word
CTRL/e@Move to end of input
CTRL/b@Move to beginning of input
CTRL/n@Next line
CTRL/p@Previous line
CTRL/u@Delete input
CTRL/i@Insert mode (default)
CTRL/r@Replace mode
DEL@Delete previous character
.sp 6p
_
.TE
.PP
If you need to span more than one line with the translated text, type a 
backslash (\\) and press the RETURN key to enable line continuation.  
After you finish entering the translated text, press the RETURN key to signal 
that you have finished translating that message.
.PP
The bottom window displays any messages generated by
.PN trans .
If an error occurs, 
.PN trans
prompts you to re-enter the entire line, including the message 
label or number.
.SH Options
.IP \fB\-c\fR 5
Display comment lines beginning with a dollar sign ($) for translation, in
addition to messages.
.IP \fB\-o\fR 5
Call the output file \fIname\fR.
The default is output file name is
.PN trans.msf .
.SH Restrictions
Your terminal must be 80 columns by 24 lines for
.PN trans
to display its three-window screen.
.PP
You cannot interrupt a
.PN trans
session and restart it at the point you stopped. You must complete the 
all the changes to a file before exiting a file.
.SH See Also
intro(3int), extract(1int), gencat(1int), strextract(1int), strmerge(1int)
.br
\fIGuide to Developing International Software\fP
