.\" SCCSID: @(#)ul.1	8.1	9/11/90
.TH ul 1
.SH Name
ul \- process underscores for terminal 
.SH Syntax
.B ul
[\fB\-i\fR] [\fB\-t\fI terminal\fR] [\|\fIname...\fR]
.SH Description
.NXR "ul command"
.NXA "man command" "ul command"
.NXR "terminal" "underlining and"
The
.PN ul
command reads the named files (or standard input if none are given)
and translates occurrences of underscores to the sequence
which indicates underlining for the terminal in use, as specified
by the environment variable TERM.
The
.B \-t
option overrides the terminal kind specified in the environment.
The file /etc/termcap
is read to determine the appropriate sequences for underlining.
If the terminal is incapable of underlining, but is capable of
a standout mode then that is used instead.
If the terminal can overstrike,
or handles underlining automatically,
.PN ul
degenerates to 
.MS cat 1 .
If the terminal cannot underline, underlining is ignored.
.PP
The
.B \-i
option causes
.PN ul
to indicate underlining by a separate line containing appropriate
dashes `\-'; this is useful when you want to look at the underlining
which is present in an
.PN nroff
output stream on a crt-terminal.
.SH Options
.IP \fB\-i\fR 0.3i
Displays underscoring on separate line 
containing appropriate dashes (-).
.IP "\fB\-\|t\fI terminal\fR" 0.3i
Uses type of specified terminal in place
your terminal's type.
.SH Restrictions
The
.PN nroff
command
usually outputs a series of backspaces and underlines intermixed
with the text to indicate underlining.  No attempt is made to optimize
the backward motion.
.SH See Also
man(1), nroff(1), colcrt(1)
