.TH uuid_gen 1ncs
.\".if '\nv'1' .TH UUID_GEN 1 domain
.\".if '\nv'4' .TH UUID_GEN 8 domain
.\".if '\nv'5' .TH UUID_GEN 1M domain
.\".if !\nh  \{
.SH Name
uuid_gen \- UUID generating program
.SH Syntax
\fB/etc/ncs/uuid_gen\fR [ \fB\-c\fR ]
.\"[ \fB\-p\fR ]
[ \fB\-C\fR ]
.\"[ \fB\-P\fR ]
[ \fB\-version\fR ] \}
.SH Description
The
.PN uuid_gen
program generates Universal Unique Identifiers (UUIDs).
Without options, it generates a character-string representation of a UUID.
The \fB\-c\fR option enables you to generate a template for Network Interface
Definition Language (NIDL) files.
.NXR "Universal Unique Identifiers" "uuid_gen"
The \fB\-C\fR option enables you to generate source-code representations of
UUIDs, suitable for initializing variables of type 
.PN uuid_$t .
.SH Options
.TP 1i
\fB\-c\fR
Generate a template,
including a UUID attribute,
for an interface definition in the C syntax of NIDL.
.\".TP
.\"\fB\-p\fR
.\"Generate a template,
.\"including a UUID attribute,
.\"for an interface definition in the Pascal syntax of NIDL.
.TP
\fB\-C\fR
Generate a C source-code representation of a UUID.
.\".TP
.\"\fB\-P\fR
.\"Generate a Pascal source-code representation of a UUID.
.TP
\fB\-version\fR
Display the version of the Network Computing Kernel (NCK) that this 
.PN uuid_gen
belongs to but do not generate a UUID.  (NCK is part of the Network
Computing System (NCS) on which DECrpc is based.)
.SH Examples
Generate a character-string representation of a UUID:
.EX  
\fB$ /etc/ncs/uuid_gen\fP
34dc23469000.0d.00.00.7c.5f.00.00.00
.EE    
Generate a template for an interface definition in the C syntax of NIDL:
.EX
\fB$ /etc/ncs/uuid_gen\0\-c\fP
%c
[
uuid(34dc239ec000.0d.00.00.7c.5f.00.00.00),
version(1)
]
interface INTERFACENAME {

}
.EE
Generate a template for an interface definition in the C syntax of NIDL.
Redirect the output to the file 
.PN myfile.idl .
.EX
\fB$ /etc/ncs/uuid_gen\0\-c >myfile.idl\fP
.EE
Generate a C source-code representation of a UUID:
.EX  
\fB$ /etc/ncs/uuid_gen\0\-C\fP
= { 0x34dc23af,
0xf000,
0x0000,
0x0d,
{0x00, 0x00, 0x7c, 0x5f, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00} };
.EE
.SH See Also
\fIDECrpc Programming Guide\fP
