.\" SCCSID: @(#)uustat.1c	8.1	9/11/90
.TH uustat 1c
.SH Name
uustat \- uucp status inquiry and job control
.SH Syntax
.B uustat
[ options ] 
.SH Description
.NXA "uucp utility" "uustat program"
.NXR "uucp utility" "displaying command status"
.NXR "uucp utility" "displaying connection status"
The
.PN uustat
command either displays the status of or cancels previously specified
.PN uucp
commands, or it provides general status on 
.PN uucp
connections to other systems.
.SH Options
.NXR "uustat program" "options"
.IP \fB\-c\fIhour\fR 0.3i
Removes entries older than specified hour.
This option can only be executed by the user 
.PN uucp
or the super-user.
.IP \fB\-j\fIall\fR 0.3i
Reports status of all requests.
.IP \fB\-k\fIjobn\fR 0.3i
Kills specified job.   
The killed 
.PN uucp
request must belong to the person issuing 
the 
.PN uustat
command unless that person has "super-user"
privilege.
.IP \fB\-m\fImch\fR 0.3i
Reports status of accessibility of machine \fImch\fP.
If \fImch\fP is specified as \fBall\fP, then the status of all
machines known to the local 
.PN uucp
are provided.
.IP \fB\-o\fIhour\fR 0.3i
Reports status of 
requests which are older than 
specified hour.
.IP \fB\-s\fIsys\fR 0.3i
Reports status of 
.PN uucp
requests for specified system.
.IP \fB\-u\fIuser\fR 0.3i
Reports status of 
requests issued by specified user.
.IP \fB\-v\fR 0.3i 
Invokes verbose printout option.  
If this option is not specified, a status code is printed with each
.PN uucp
request.
.IP \fB\-y\fIhour\fR 0.3i
Reports status of all 
requests that are younger than
specified hour.
.PP
When no options are given, 
.PN uustat
outputs the status of all
.PN uucp
requests issued by the current user.
Note that only one of the options \fB\-j, \-m, \-k, \-c,\fP  
can be used with the other options.
For example, the command
.EX
uustat \-usteve \-slimbo \-y63 \-v
.EE
.PP
will print the verbose status of all 
.PN uucp
jobs that were issued by user \fIsteve\fP destined for system
\fIlimbo\fP within the last 63 hours.
The format of each job status entry is:
.EX 0
job# user destination spool_time status_time status
.EE
where the \fIstatus\fP may be either an octal number or a verbose
description.
The octal code corresponds to the following description:
.nf 

OCTAL	STATUS
00001	Copy failed for unknown reasons.
00002	Permission to access local file is denied.
00004	Permission to access remote file is denied.
00010	Bad uucp command is generated.
00020	Remote system cannot create temporary file.
00040	Cannot copy to remote directory.
00100	Cannot copy to local directory.
00200	Local system cannot create temporary file.
00400	Cannot execute uucp.
01000	Copy succeeded.
02000	Copy finished, job deleted.
04000	Job is queued.
.fi
.PP
The format for the machine accessibility status entries is:
.EX 0
system  status_time   last_success_time   status
.EE
where
.IP \fBsystem\fP
is the system in question
.IP \fBstatus_time\fP
is the time the last status entry was made.
.IP \fBlast_success_time\fP
is the last time a connection was successfully made to
this system.
A conversation could be ended prematurely after a 
successful connection.
.IP \fBstatus\fP
is a self-explanatory description of the machine status.
.sp
.PP
In the current implementation 
.PN uux
requests are not
recorded in the 
.PN uustat
logging files.
This implies that \fImail\fP and \fInews\fP requests are not recorded
by 
.PN uustat .
.SH Files
/usr/spool/uucp/		spool directory (top level)
.br
/usr/lib/uucp/L_stat	system status file
.br
/usr/lib/uucp/R_stat	request status file
.SH See Also
uucp(1c)
