.\" SCCSID: @(#)uux.1c	8.1	9/11/90
.TH uux 1c
.SH Name
uux \- unix to unix command execution
.SH Syntax
.NXR "uux command"
.B uux
[\fB\-\fR] \fIcommand-string\fR
.SH Description
The
.PN uux
command gathers 0 or more files from various systems,
executes a command on a specified system,
and sends standard output to a file on a specified
system.
.PP
The 
.I command-string 
is made up of one or more arguments that look like a shell command line,
except that the command and file names
may be prefixed by system-name!.
A null system-name is interpreted as the local system.
.PP
File names may be one of the following:
.IP \(bu 5
A pathname 
.IP \(bu 5
A pathname preceded by
.IR ~xxx,
where
.I xxx
is a userid on the specified system
and is replaced by that user's login directory
.IP \(bu 5
Any other syntax that is prefixed by the current directory.
.PP
For example, the following command line gets the f1 files from the usg 
and pwba machines, executes a
.PN diff
command and puts the results in f1.diff in the local directory.
.EX
uux "!diff usg!/usr/dan/f1 pwba!/a4/dan/f1 > !f1.diff"
.EE
.PP
When using special shell characters such as <>'!, you should either
quote the entire 
.I command-string,
or you should quote the special characters as individual arguments.
.PP
The
.PN uux
command attempts to get all files to the execution system.  
If both the file and command are located on different remote sites, 
the file is first brought to the local system and 
is then transferred to the execution system.
.PP
If you want to include files as arguments to a command, but you
do not want those files to be processed by 
.PN uux ,
enclose the filename in parentheses.  For example:
.EX
uux a!uucp b!/usr/file (c!/usr/file)
.EE
The previous example sends a 
.PN uucp
command to system 
.PN a.  
The 
.PN /usr/file
is transferred from system 
.PN b 
to the local system, and then is passed to system 
.PN a.  
When 
.PN /usr/file
arrives at system 
.PN a 
the 
.PN uucp
command executes and sends 
.PN /usr/file
to system 
.PN c .
.PP
If the request is not allowed on the remote system, the 
.PN uux
command
notifies you.  This response is sent through remote mail
from the remote machine.
.SH Options
.IP "\fB\\-c, \-l\fR" 0.3i 
Do not copy local file to the spool directory for transfer
to the remote machine.  This is the default.
.IP "\fB\-g\fIgrade\fR" 0.3i
Specifies the
.I grade
which is a single letter or number from 0 to 9, A to Z, or a to z.
The highest grade is 0, the lowest grade is z.  The default is
A.  Lower grades should be specified for high-volume jobs, such
as news.
.IP \fB\-n\fR 0.3i 
Sends no notification to user.
.IP "\fB\-p, -\fR" 0.3i
Reads stdin.
.IP \fB\-r\fR 0.3i
Queues the job, but does not start the file transfer.
.IP \fB\-x\fIdebug\fR 0.3i
Produces debugging output on stdout.  The
.I debug
option is a number between 0 and 9.  Higher numbers provide more detailed
information.  Debugging is permitted only for those users with read
access to 
.MS L.sys 5 .
.IP \fB\-z\fR 0.3i
Notify the user if the command fails.
.SH Warning
An installation may limit the list of
commands executable on behalf of an incoming request from
.PN uux .
Typically, a restricted site permits little other than
the receipt of mail through
.PN uux .
.SH Restrictions
Only the first command of a shell pipeline may
have a system-name!.
All other commands are executed on the system of the first
command.
.PP
The use of the shell metacharacter asterisk (*) shell metacharacter
may not behave as you expect.
The shell tokens (<<  >>) are not implemented.
.PP
You are not notified when execution on a remote machine is denied.
Only commands listed in 
.PN /usr/lib/uucp/L.cmds
on the remote system are executed at the remote system.
.SH Files
.DT
/usr/spool/uucp	spool directory
.br
/usr/lib/uucp/*	other data and programs
.SH See Also
uucp(1c)
.br
"Uucp Implementation Description"
.I ULTRIX Supplementary Documents
Vol. III: System Manager
