.\" SCCSID: @(#)view.1	8.1	9/11/90
.TH view 1
.SH Name
view \- displays a file using the vi commands 
.SH Syntax 
.B view
[\fB\-t\fI tag\fR\|] [\fB\-r\fR] [\fB+\fR\fIcommand\fR\|] [\fB\-l\fR] 
[\fB\-w\fIn\fR\|] [\fB\-x\fR] \fIname...\fR
.SH Description
.NXR "view command"
.NXR "view command" "encryption"
.NXR "encryption" "view command"  
The
.PN view
command displays a text file. 
The
.PN view
command and the
.PN vi
command
run almost the same code except that in 
.PN view
changes to a file are not allowed.  It is possible to get to
the command mode of
.PN ex
from within both.
.PP
The following is a list of some of the 
.PN view 
commands. See the
\fIvi Beginner's Reference Card\fP
and the
"Introduction to Display Editing with vi" in the
\fISupplementary Documents, Volume 1: General User\fP
for more details that can be helpful for using 
.PN view .
.PP
.B Screen Control Commands
.RS 5
.IP <CTRL/L> 15 
Reprints current screen.
.IP \fB<CTRL/Y>\fP 
Exposes one more line at top of screen.
.IP \fB<CTRL/E>\fP 
Exposes one more line at bottom of screen.
.RE
.PP
.B Paging Commands
.RS 5
.IP <CTRL/F> 15
Pages forward one screen.
.IP <CTRL/B>
Pages back one screen.
.IP <CTRL/D>
Pages down half screen.
.IP <CTRL/U>
Pages up half screen.
.RE
.PP
.B Cursor Positioning Commands
.RS 5
.IP j 15
Moves cursor down one line, same column.
.IP k
Moves cursor up one line, same column.
.IP h
Moves cursor back one character.
.IP l
Moves cursor forward one character.
.IP <RETURN>
Moves cursor to beginning of next line.
.IP 0
Moves cursor to beginning of current line.
.IP $
Moves cursor to end of current line.
.IP <SPACE>
Moves cursor forward one character.
.IP \fIn\fBG\fR
Moves cursor to beginning of line \fIn\fR.  Default is last line 
of file.
.IP /\fIpattern\fP
Moves cursor forward to next occurrence of \fIpattern\fP.
.IP ?\fIpattern\fP
Moves cursor backward to next occurrence of \fIpattern\fP.
.IP n
Repeats last / or ? pattern search.
.RE
.PP
.B Exiting view
.RS 5
.IP ZZ 15
Exits 
.PN view. 
.IP :q
Quits 
.PN view 
session.
.RE
.SH Options
.IP "\-t \fItag\fR" 10
Specifies a list of 
.I tag
files. The 
.I tag
files are preceded by a backslash (\\)
and are separated by spaces. The 
.I tag
option should always be the first
entry.
.IP +\fIcommand\fR
Tells the editor to begin by executing the specified 
.I command. 
An example would be +/\fIpattern\fR that would search
for a 
.I pattern.
.IP \-l
Sets the showmatch and lisp options for viewing LISP code..
.IP \-r\fI name\fR
Retrieves the last saved version of the 
.IR name 'd
file in the event of a
system crash. If no file is specified, a list of saved files is
produced.
.IP \-w\fIn\fR
Sets the default window size to
.I n.
This option is useful for starting in a small window on dialups.
.NT
The 
.B \-x
option is available only if the Encryption 
layered product is installed.
.NE
.IP \-x 10
Causes
.PN view
to prompt for a
.I key.
The
.I key
is used to encrypt and decrypt the contents of the file. 
If the file has been encrypted with one
.IR key ,
you must use the same
.I key
to decrypt the file.
.SH See Also
edit(1), ex(1), vi(1) 
.br
\fIThe Little Gray Book: An ULTRIX Primer\fP
.br
\fIThe Big Gray Book: The Next Step with ULTRIX\fP
.br
"An Introduction to Display Editing with vi" in the 
\fISupplementary Documents, Volume 1: General User\fP
