.\" SCCSID: @(#)whereis.1	8.1	9/11/90
.TH whereis 1
.SH Name
whereis \- locate source, binary, and or manual for program
.SH Syntax
.B whereis
[\fB\-sbm\fR] [\fB\-u\fR] [\fB\-SBM\fI dir... \fB\-f\fR\|] \fIname...\fR
.SH Description
.NXR "whereis command"
.NXR "program" "locating source"
.NXR "program" "locating binary"
.NXR "program" "locating manual"
.NXR "command" "locating online information"
The
.PN whereis
command
locates source/binary and manuals sections for specified files.
The supplied names are first stripped of leading pathname components
and any (single) trailing extension of the form ``.ext'', for
example,``.c''.
Prefixes of ``s.'' resulting from use of source code control are also
dealt with.
The
.PN whereis
command then attempts to locate the
desired program in a list of standard places.
.SH Options
.IP "\fB\-S dir\fR" 0.3i
Search for source files in specified directory.  
.IP "\fB\-B dir\fR" 0.3i
Search for binary files in given directory.  
.IP "\fB\-M dir\fR" 0.3i
Search for manual section files in given directory.  
.IP \fB\-b\fR 0.3i
Searches only for binary files.  
.IP \fB\-f\fR 0.3i
Terminates last directory list created from use of \fB\-S\fR,
\fB\-B\fR or \fB\-M\fR flags and signals
the start of file names.  
.IP \fB\-m\fR 0.3i
Searches only for manual section files.  
.IP \fB\-s\fR 0.3i
Searches only for source files.  
.IP \fB\-u\fR 0.3i
Searches for files that do not have one 
of binary, source or manual section files.
A file is said to be unusual if it does not have one entry of
each requested type.
Thus ``whereis \-m \-u *'' asks for those files in the current
directory which have no documentation.
.SH Examples
.NXR "whereis command" "example"
The following finds all the files in 
.PN /usr/ucb
which are not documented
in 
.PN /usr/man/man1
with source in
.PN /usr/src/cmd:
.EX
cd /usr/ucb
whereis \-u \-M /usr/man/man1 \-S /usr/src/cmd \-f *
.EE
.SH Restrictions
Since the program uses
.MS chdir 2
to run faster, pathnames given with the
.B \-M
.B \-S
and
.B \-B
must be full.  That is, they must begin with a ``/''.
.SH Files
/usr/src/*
.br
/usr/{doc,man}/*
.br
/lib, /etc, /usr/{lib,bin,ucb,old,new,local}
