.\" SCCSID: @(#)ypmatch.1yp	8.3	11/21/90
.TH ypmatch 1yp
.SH Name
ypmatch \- print the value of one or more keys from a yp map
.SH Syntax
.B ypmatch 
[\fB\-d\fI domain\fR\|] [\fB\-k\fR] [\fB\-t\fR] \fIkey...\fR \fImname\fR
.br
.B ypmatch 
.B \-x
.SH Description
.NXR "ypmatch command"
.NXR "YP map" "printing key values"
.PP
The
.PN ypmatch 
command prints the values associated with one or more keys from the 
yellow pages (YP) map (database) specified by a
.I mname,
which may be either a
.I mapname
or a map 
.I nickname.
.PP
Multiple keys can be specified.
After the key values and the map name have been specified, 
.PN ypmatch 
searches the map for all of the specified keys.
The specified keys must be exact values in terms of capitalization
and length.
The
.PN ypmatch 
command
does not have a pattern matching capability.
If
.PN ypmatch
cannot match a key, it produces a diagnostic message.
.PP
The default list of mapnames served by YP is as follows:
.PN passwd.byname ,
.PN passwd.byuid ,
.PN group.byname ,
.PN group.byuid ,
.PN hosts.byname ,
.PN hosts.byaddr ,
.PN networks.byname ,
.PN networks.byaddr ,
.PN services.byname_proto ,
.PN services.byport ,
.PN services.byname ,
.PN rpc.bynumber ,
.PN protocols.byname ,
.PN protocols.bynumber ,
.PN netgroup.byuser ,
.PN netgroup.byhost ,
.PN mail.alias .
.PP
Note that the YP server must be running ULTRIX Version 4.2 or higher
for the 
.PN services.byname_proto
and
.PN services.byport
maps to exist.  Also note that the 
.PN services.byname
map is accessed with port numbers, not service names.  Use the
.PN service.byname_proto
map to access services by name.  The 
.PN services.byname
map remains for compatibility.  See the Examples section for sample
command lines that illustrate how to access information in each of the maps.
.SH Options
.IP \fB\-d\fR 0.3i
Displays key values for specified domain.
.IP \fB\-k\fR 0.3i
Displays key, followed by a colon (:), before displaying value of the key.  
This is useful if the keys are not duplicated in the returned
values, or if the number of specified keys is so large that the output is
confusing.
.IP \fB\-t\fR 0.3i
Inhibits translation of nickname to mapname.
For example,
.EX
ypmatch \-t zippy passwd 
.EE
fails because there is no map named
.I passwd,
while
.EX
ypmatch zippy passwd 
.EE
succeeds because
.PN ypmatch 
translates it to
.EX
ypmatch zippy passwd.byname.
.EE
.IP \fB\-x\fR 0.3i
Displays map nickname table.
This option tells
.PN ypmatch 
to list the nicknames (\fImnames\fR\|)
with their associated
.I mapnames.
.SH Examples
The following are sample command lines that illustrate how to use the 
.PN ypmatch 
command to access information in each of the maps:
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB 
lfR  lfR  
lfR  lfR  
lfR  lfR .
_
.sp 4p
Mapname@Sample command
.sp 4p
_
.sp 6p
\f(CWpasswd.byname\fP@\f(CBypmatch user1 passwd.byname\fP
\f(CWpasswd.byuid\fP@\f(CBypmatch uid1 passwd.byuid\fP
\f(CWgroup.byname\fP@\f(CBypmatch group1 group.byname\fP
\f(CWgroup.byuid\fP@\f(CBypmatch gid1 group.bygid\fP
\f(CWhosts.byname\fP@\f(CBypmatch host1 host.byname\fP
\f(CWhosts.byaddr\fP@\f(CBypmatch hostaddr1 hosts.byaddr\fP
\f(CWnetworks.byname\fP@\f(CBypmatch network1 networks.byname\fP
\f(CWnetworks.byaddr\fP@\f(CBypmatch netaddr1 networks.byaddr\fP
\f(CWservices.byname_proto\fP@\f(CBypmatch service1/udp services.byname_proto\fP
\f(CWservices.byport\fP@\f(CBypmatch servport/tcp service.byport\fP
\f(CWservices.byname\fP@\f(CBypmatch servport/tcp services.byname\fP
\f(CWrpc.bynumber\fP@\f(CBypmatch rpcnum rpc.bynumber\fP
\f(CWprotocols.byname\fP@\f(CBypmatch proto1 protocols.byname\fP
\f(CWprotocols.bynumber\fP@\f(CBypmatch protonum1 protocols.bynumber\fP
\f(CWnetgroup.byuser\fP@\f(CBypmatch user1 netgroup.byuser\fP
\f(CWnetgroup.byhost\fP@\f(CBypmatch host1 netgroup.byhost\fP
\f(CWmail.alias\fP@\f(CBypmatch mailgroup1 mail.alias\fP
.sp 6p
_
.TE
.SH See Also
ypfiles(5yp), ypcat(1yp)
.br
\fIGuide to the Yellow Pages Service\fP
