.\" SCCSID: @(#)ypwhich.1yp	8.1	9/11/90
.TH ypwhich 1yp
.SH Name
ypwhich \- determine which host is the current YP server or map master.
.SH Syntax
.B ypwhich
[\fB\-d\fI domain\fR\|] [\fB\-V1\fR] [\fB\-V2\fR] [\|\fIhostname\fR\|]
.br
.B ypwhich
[\fB\-d\fI domain\fR\|] [\fB\-m\fI mname\fR\|]\|[\fB\-t\fR]\|]
.br
.B "ypwhich \-x"
.SH Description
.NXR "ypwhich command"
.NXAM "ypserv daemon" "ypwhich command"
.NXR "YP server" "determining"
The
.PN ypwhich
command identifies the YP server that currently supplies yellow pages
services to a YP client.  It also identifies which YP server is the
master for a map.  If invoked without arguments, 
.PN ypwhich
returns the host name of the YP server for the local machine.  If
.I hostname
is specified, 
.PN ypwhich
checks that machine 
to find out which YP master it is using.
.PP
Refer to 
.MS ypfiles 5yp
and
.MS ypserv 8yp
for an overview of the yellow
pages.
.SH Options
.IP \fB\-V1\fR 0.3i
Identifies which server is serving
v.1 YP protocol-speaking client processes.
.IP \fB\-V2\fR 0.3i
Identifies which server is serving
v.2 YP protocol-speaking client processes.
.IP
If neither version is specified, 
.PN ypwhich
attempts to locate the server that supplies the
current v.2 services.  If there is no v.2 server currently
bound, 
.PN ypwhich
attempts to locate the server supplying the v.1 services.
Since YP servers and YP clients are both backward compatible,
the user need seldom be concerned about which version is currently in 
use.
.IP \fB\-d\fR 0.3i
Uses
.I domain
instead of the current domain.
.IP "\fB\-m\fI mname\fR" 0.3i
Finds the master YP server for a map.  No
.I hostname
can be specified with
.B \-m.
The
.I mname
argument can be a mapname, or a nickname for a map.  
.IP \fB\-t\fR 0.3i
Inhibits nickname translation and is useful if there is a mapname
identical to a nickname.
.IP \fB\-x\fR 0.3i
Displays the map nickname table.
This option lists the nicknames (\fImnames\fR\|)
that the command knows of, and indicates the
.I mapname
associated with each
nickname.
.SH See Also
ypfiles(5yp), rpcinfo(8nfs), ypserv(8yp), ypsetup(8yp) 
